<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>SBA frameworks</title>
    <para>
        Even though the technology is still relatively new, their are a few implementations fo space based architectures
        available. In the Java world, there is Java spaces which provides a simple API for state based architectures. This
        API is implemented by a number of open source and proprietary SBA frameworks including
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                The Blitz Project
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                GigaSpaces
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>JavaSpaces</title>
        <para>
            Java spaces is a basic API for space based architectures based on the JINI services API. It provides the basic SBA operations
            with transaction control and security.
            
            JINI itself can be
            seen as a distributed trader service through which service providers can advertize their availability as
            well as the services they offer.
        </para>
        
        <section>
            <title>What is JINI?</title>
            <para>
                JINI is a network architecture for the construction of distributed systems in the form of modular co-operating services.
                It initially targeted the devices space, enabling devices to notify their availability and distribute drivers to
                potential clients.
            </para>
            <para>
                Devices can automatically discover and join a JINI network. JINI provides an infrastructure for looking up services and
                leasing resources. It has support for transactions and security.
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>The Blitz Project</title>
        <para>
            Blitz provides an open source implementation of JavaSpaces which aim to simplify a lot of the environmental configuration
            tasks.
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>GigaSpaces</title>
        <para>
            GigaSpaces is a commercially successful JavaSpaces implementation which provides an infrastructure for
            extreme scalability and reliability. It is built around their <emphasis>eXtreme Application Platform</emphasis>
            (XAP) which is a highly-scalable, self-managed distributed in-memory data grid solution. 
        </para>
        <para>
            GigaSpaces supports sychronizing space via hibernate with a relational database. It also supports integration
            with Microsoft.Net technologies.
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    