<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Risks around SOA-based software systems</title>
    <indexterm>
        <primary>SOA</primary>
        <secondary>risks</secondary>
    </indexterm>
    <para>
        A number of SOA projects have failed. This points to that there are still real risks
        associated with SOA based technologies.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Vendor lock-in</title>
        <para>
            Due to an incomplete set of public standards, standards which are not yet ratified and insufficient
            standards support, or due vendor provided convenience tools which encourage the use of
            vendor specific features, SOA implementations often still end up having significant vendor lock-in.
        </para>
        <para>
            This typically results in increased porting and production costs, reduced skills pools,
            and increased risk.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Performance</title>
        <para>
            Naive usage of SOA based technologies for performance-critical work may result in performance
            issues associated with marshalling/demarshalling and messaging.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <!-- VERIFY section>
        <title>Logic on the bus</title>
        <para>
            It is possible to code business logic onto the bus itself. This defeats the purpose of assembling
            business processes across services which are available to the bus and results in excessive
            complexity and strain on the bus itself.
        </para>
    </section -->
    
    <section>
        <title>Immature technologies</title>
        <para>
            Many of the SOA frameworks are still immature and some of the standards are still in draft. This results
            in tools problems and incomplete feature sets.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Technology abuse</title>
        <para>
            SOA technologies are still relatively novel and often there is insufficient conceptual or technical understanding
            in these technologies. This may result in using the technology incorrectly and not obtaining the envisaged benefits.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Non-business-driven projects</title>
        <para>
            One of the core benefits of using SOA based architectures is that it has the ability to reduce the gap between business
            and IT, with business and IT communicating with similar languages. The core benefit from this is only realized if
            SOA projects are business driven (i.e. if realised within an Services-Oriented Enterprise).
        </para>
    </section>
</section> 