<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>What is Model-Driven Development (MDD)?</title>
    <para>
        <emphasis>Model-Driven Development (MDD)</emphasis> is also commonly called  
        <emphasis>Model-Driven Engieerning</emphasis> (MDE).
        It is a particular approach to development of objects providing functionality/services
        which requires that one first builds a model
        for the end-product before mapping that model onto an implementation of the end-product.
    </para>
    <para>
        Within MDD there are two basic approaches:
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                A implementation technology specific approach where contains the process realization within
                the intended implementation architecture and technologies. The analysis model will thus specify
                what should be added/modified within specific systems or system components and the design will
                show how the new functionality is to be provided and how it makes use of the concrete  
                functionality available in the current systems.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                An approach where the analysis and process design are independent of the implementation architecture
                and technologies into which the new functionality will be deployed. The model is at a more abstract level
                which is technology neutral. For the implementation mapping one will require, in addition to the technology 
                neutral model, a specification of the implementation architecture and technologies.
            </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
    </para>
</section>    