<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.patterns.broker.exampleApplications" xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">

  <title>Example applications</title>
  <para>
    The broker architecture is generally used to integrate distributed systems.
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>CORBA</title>
    <para>
      CORBA, the <emphasis>Common Object Request Broker Architecture</emphasis>,
      was developed by the OMG (<emphasis>Object Management Group</emphasis>) in 1990/1991
      as a public standard for integrating systems in a clean object-oriented way, irrespective of
      whether the implementation technologies themselves (for example the implementation technology
      chosen for the server or the client implementations) are object oriented or not.
    </para>
    <para>
      CORBA was meant to be a global standard and many companies have developed (or bought) their
      own implementation of CORBA. For example, IBM, Sun, Borland, Oracle, BEA, HP, IONA,
      and many, many others provide one or at times even multiple CORBA implementations.
      <note><para>
        An exception is Microsoft who decided not to support the industry-wide standard and
        implemented their own <quote>quasi-object-orientated</quote> midlleware
        technology, DCOM.
      </para></note>
    </para>
    <para>
      Furthermore, more and more higher-level technologies are built on top of CORBA. For example,
      Sun's <emphasis>Enterprise Java Beans</emphasis> technology used for the business logic layer
      of Sun's enterprise architecture, J2EE (the <emphasis>Java 2 Enterprise Architecture</emphasis>)
      is built on top of CORBA.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Web-services brokers</title>
    <para>
      In a similar spirit, many organizations provide a broker based architecture for requesting
      and delivering services within the public standard for web-based system integration, 
      <emphasis>Web Services</emphasis>. For example, Sun provides JAX-RPC, 
      the <emphasis>Java API for XML-based emote Procedure Calls</emphasis> as a 
      broker architecture for web services.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Java RMI</title>
    <para>
      Java's RMI (<emphasis>Remote Method Invocation</emphasis>) is an implementation of
      a broker architecture.
      <note><para>
        Sun has modified RMI to be a high-level protocol on top of the CORBA protocol.  
      </para></note>
    </para>
  </section>
  
</section>