<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns3291:section xmlns:ns3291="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2se.security.protectingSourceCode.dataObfuscation">
    
    <ns3292:title xmlns:ns3292="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Data Obfuscation</ns3292:title>

<ns3293:para xmlns:ns3293="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Data obfuscation makes transformations on data values such that the original 
logic is much less obvious but that the resultant application logic remains 
unchanged. This may involve changing the logic like transforming the following 
code snippet</ns3293:para>
<ns3294:para xmlns:ns3294="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns3295:programlisting xmlns:ns3295="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
\noindent{\small
int k=1;
double sum = 0;
do
{
  sum += vec[k] + 2*k;
  ++k;
}
while (k&lt;100);  
</ns3295:programlisting></ns3294:para>

<ns3296:para xmlns:ns3296="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">to code which makes the underlying logic a lot less transparent:
<ns3297:programlisting xmlns:ns3297="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
int d=17;
int m=Math.floor(d+Math.sqrt(2*Math.PI));
double x = m*m;
do 
{
  x += vec[m-14/5] + (2*m - 28)/10;
  m += 5;
}
while (k&lt;100);

x -= 361;
</ns3297:programlisting></ns3296:para>

<ns3298:para xmlns:ns3298="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The final value of <ns3299:emphasis xmlns:ns3299="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">sum</ns3299:emphasis> in the first listing will be equal to the final
value of <ns3300:emphasis xmlns:ns3300="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">x</ns3300:emphasis> in the second listing but the actual logic behind the code
is difficult to extract.</ns3298:para>
<ns3301:para xmlns:ns3301="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
Data obfuscation may also alter the actual data structures. Techniques commonly
used include
<ns3302:itemizedlist xmlns:ns3302="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <ns3303:listitem xmlns:ns3303="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns3304:formalpara xmlns:ns3304="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns3305:title xmlns:ns3305="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Merging of data structures.</ns3305:title><ns3306:para xmlns:ns3306="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Several unrelated data structures (arrays,
       collections or records) can be combined into a large single data structure
       containing unrelated elements. The meaning of the data structures becomes
       difficult to understand and the logic is difficult to unravel.</ns3306:para></ns3304:formalpara></ns3303:listitem>
  <ns3307:listitem xmlns:ns3307="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns3308:formalpara xmlns:ns3308="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns3309:title xmlns:ns3309="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Splitting of data structures.</ns3309:title><ns3310:para xmlns:ns3310="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Single data structures containing information
       from a particular domain may be split into several data structures at 
       localized within different levels of scope and given unrelated names.</ns3310:para></ns3308:formalpara></ns3307:listitem>
  <ns3311:listitem xmlns:ns3311="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns3312:formalpara xmlns:ns3312="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns3313:title xmlns:ns3313="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Rearranging positioning within data structures.</ns3313:title><ns3314:para xmlns:ns3314="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> For example, array elements
       may be exchanged such that index $i$ is mapped onto $f(i)$.</ns3314:para></ns3312:formalpara></ns3311:listitem>
  <ns3315:listitem xmlns:ns3315="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns3316:formalpara xmlns:ns3316="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns3317:title xmlns:ns3317="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The scoping of data structures may be changed.</ns3317:title><ns3318:para xmlns:ns3318="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Data structures which are
       applicable at one level of scope (for example as instance members of a 
       particular class may be transferred to another scope and made accessible
       from there.</ns3318:para></ns3316:formalpara></ns3315:listitem>
</ns3302:itemizedlist>
and other techniques.
</ns3301:para>
    
<ns3319:para xmlns:ns3319="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Note that even though the techniques used are commonly known, it is still very difficult
to identify where in the obfuscated code the technique has been applied (except
perhaps if the original logic is known which means that there is nothing to
protect in the first place).</ns3319:para>

<ns3320:para xmlns:ns3320="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Data obfuscation typically does carry a computational overhead.</ns3320:para>

    
</ns3291:section>