<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<chapter xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <title>Typesafe enumerations</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>Enumerations</primary>
  </indexterm>
  <para>
    An enumeration is a <emphasis>fixed set of constant values</emphasis>.
    Many situations naturally require us to work with fixed values, such
    as months of the year, the prime colours (Red, Yellow and Blue), and
    so forth.
  </para>
  
  <xi:include href="introduction/introduction.docbook"/>
  <xi:include href="defining/defining.docbook"/>
  <xi:include href="using/using.docbook"/>
  
  <section>
    <title>
      When to use enumerated types?
    </title>
    <para>
      Though enumerations are a valuable tool, and an important addition
      to Java (since version 5), their over-use could potentially reduce
      flexibility.
    </para>
    <para>
      It might be tempting to use them for constructs such as colours,
      account types, product categories, employee roles, and the like -
      but in almost all of these cases (and many like these) such usage
      would detrimentally limit the ability of the system to cater for
      a wider (more natural) variety of situations.
    </para>
    <para>
      In principle, it would be a good guideline to <emphasis>only use enumerations 
      to represent tings which, in real life, can also be considered
      enumerations</emphasis>. In other words, for sets of values which one 
      can <emphasis>absolutely assert that they are complete.</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Exercises</title>
    <para>
      Think of something from your day-to-day life, or work, which could
      benefit from being expressed as an enumeration. It must contain one
      or more attributes, as well as services to access them.
      <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>Write and compile your enumeration</para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Write a class (JavaBean) which has one or more members
            of which the type is the enumeration you wrote.
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            Write a small test program which illustrates some aspect of
            the usage of your enumeration.
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </orderedlist>
    </para>
  </section>
  
</chapter>