<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Commit</title>
    
    <para> 
        Two phase commit obviously traverses two phases when committing a transaction. The first phase is a
        <emphasis>commit-request</emphasis> or preparation phase, while the second phase, the <emphasis>commit</emphasis>
        phase is hte phase where the effects of the transaction are actually committed, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> made durable
        and visible.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Commit request phase</title>
        <para>
            During the commit request phase the resource managers are asked to go into a state for which they can guarantee 
            that they will be able to commit, even in the case of experiencing a technical problem thereafter. 
        </para>
        <para>
            The algorithm for the commit request phase is as follows:
            <orderedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    The transaction coordinator sends a query to commit to each resource manager.					
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The resource manager writes the changes to be made to the various resources affected by
                    the transaction into a transaction log. 
                    <note><para>
                        More sophisticated implementations of resource manager maintain two logs, an <emphasis>undo log</emphasis>
                        and a <emphasis>redo log</emphasis>. For each modification requested by the business 
                    </para></note>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Each resource manager replies either with 
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            an agreement message that the transaction has been successful from
                            their perspective and that they have reached a state where they can guarantee a successful commit if requested, or
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            with an abort message notifying that the transaction has failed from their perspective.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The coordinator accumulates all responses and uses these to make the decision on whether to finally
                    commit the transaction or not.
                </para></listitem>
            </orderedlist>
        </para>	
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>The commit phase</title>
        <para>
            During the commit phase each resource manager is requested to perform the actual commit which makes the new
            resource state observable and durable.
            
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>    