<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    version="5.0">

    <title>Normalized messages</title>
    <para> The normalized JBI message router routes normalized messages between plugin components. A
        normalized message contains two parts: <orderedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para> An abstract XML message complying to the abstract service model in WSDL.
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> Message meta data which allows processing elements to add (plug-in and system
                    components) to add additional information to a message </para>
            </listitem>
        </orderedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Normalized message exchange</title>
        <para> In JBI all messages are converted, via binding components, to normalized messages. The
            routing is done as per business process specification upon instruction from the services
            engine (for example a BPEL services engine). </para>
        <para> The normalized message router supports message delivery with varying quality of
            service. This quality of service is typically set based on application needs and the nature
            of the message delivery channels. The normalized message router, supports the
            following quality of service levels: <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Best effort</title>
                        <para> Messages may be dropped and they may be multiply delivered. </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>At least once</title>
                        <para> Each message is delivered at least once, but could be multiply delivered.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Once and only once</title>
                        <para> Each message is only delivered exactly once. </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        
        <!-- TODO: Discuss how these are specified, and provide examples? -->
        
    </section>
    
    
</section>
