<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Cost</title>
    <para>
        The total cost of ownership is a more complex question which is influenced by the current
        background and skills levels of users. The results will further be influenced by the assessment
        period, i.e. the time over which the cost of the initial switch is amortized. Here we will simply
        look at those aspects of Linux which will reduce the cost base:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Free availability of operating system</title>
                <para>
                    Most Linux distributions are available free of charge with the option of signing a support
                    contract with the development team or other local maintenance teams.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Free availability of huge repository of open source software</title>
                <para>
                    The amount of powerful freely available software is immense ranging from databases to office suites, to a wide range of servers
                    (mail, web, application, DNS, DHCP, file servers, ...), to media processing (players, editors, rippers, ...), to IDEs, version control
                    systems,  and other development tools.                    
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>The ability to run Linux on more low-end platforms</title>
                <para>
                    Linux, because of its modular approach, is less resource intensive and hence can be more easily run on older and more
                    low end machines without sacrificing work efficiency.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Free support from the open source community</title>
                <para>
                    You can get free support from the open source community.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>The ability to take a project to modify open source software</title>
                <para>
                    At times you might have a piece of software which fulfills most, but not all your requirements. Within open source
                    you can make the required modifications, preferably submit the added functionality into public domain obtaining
                    free quality assurance and maintenance, and use the resultant system. This is much cheaper than building your own
                    solution from scratch.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    
    
    