<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Errors versus exceptions</title>
    <para>
        In principle one should distinguish between errors and exceptions where
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                an error is a scenario where the service provider does not fulfill its contractual
                obligations and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                an exception is a scenario where the service provider refuses a service because
                one or more of the preconditions for that service are not met. 
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        One thus has to consult the contract (interface with preconditions and postconditions
        and quality requirements) in order to determine whether the non-provision of a service
        resembles an error or an exceptional situation.
        <note><title>Example of an exception</title>
            <para>
                A bank may provide a debit service subject to there being sufficient funds in 
                the account. Should there be insufficient funds in the account, the bank may
                refuse the service without braking the contract. This would not be an error 
                as the service provider (the bank) does not violate the contract.
            </para>
        </note>
    </para>
    <para>
        BPEL does not natively differentiate between a exceptions and errors. Either are signalled as faults.
        Generally one would specify in the WSDL for a service provider
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                one fault for each precondition under which the service provider may refuse the service (these
                are the exceptions), and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                one fault which signals an error, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> the inability of the service provider to
                meet its contractual obligations.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        In order to enable the definition of cleaner business processes, one could introduce 
        different base fault types for exceptions and errors.
    </para>
</section>    