<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns6178:section xmlns:ns6178="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.ooLanguage.innerClasses.innerClassesDefinedWithinClassMethods">
    <ns6179:title xmlns:ns6179="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Inner Classes defined within Class Methods</ns6179:title>
    <ns6180:para xmlns:ns6180="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Assume we have defined a common interface, <ns6181:emphasis xmlns:ns6181="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">FunctionDoubleDouble</ns6181:emphasis>, for functions which map real numbers onto real numbers:<ns6182:programlisting xmlns:ns6182="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
<xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" parse="text" href="../source/FunctionDoubleDouble.java"/>
</ns6182:programlisting>
    </ns6180:para>
    <ns6183:para xmlns:ns6183="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Assume further that we have a utility class which offers a collection of class services
        for solving for a root of such functions (an $x$-value for which the function value is
        zero). We only show one implementation of a root solver which implements the simple
        bisection method for solving for a root.<ns6184:programlisting xmlns:ns6184="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
<xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" parse="text" href="../source/RootSolvers.java"/>
</ns6184:programlisting>
    </ns6183:para>
    <ns6185:para xmlns:ns6185="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">In the bisection method you are given a function and an interval (two $x$-values) over
        which the function value changes sign (from positive to negative). Assuming the function is
        continuous, we know that there is at least one root. The method iteratively finds the center
        of the interval and creates a new interval (which is half the size of the previous interval)
        over which the function still changes sign (within which the function still has at leasdt
        one root).</ns6185:para>
    <ns6186:para xmlns:ns6186="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Note that the first argument to our root solver method is an interface. This specifies
        that any object of any class which implements that interface can be passed to our root
        solver. All the root solver needs to know is that the object can be queried for function
        values at different $x$-values.</ns6186:para>
    <ns6187:para xmlns:ns6187="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Figure: RootFunction shows a function with several roots. In our example we shall
        determine the root which lies between 0 and 1.
        <!--\begin{figure}[hbt]
  \begin{center}\input{OOReview/Function.tex}\end{center}
  \caption{A function with several roots. We will be searching for the root
           which lies between 0 and 1. \label{figRootFunction"
\end{figure}-->
        <!-- please add apropriate solmsDoc/MathML-->
    </ns6187:para>
    <ns6188:para xmlns:ns6188="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Assume further we have some class which requires for one of its services to find the root
        of some function which is solely defined for the class itself. For example, below we assume
        that there is a class <ns6189:emphasis xmlns:ns6189="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">MyConstruction</ns6189:emphasis> which needs to find
        the root of a particular function in order to calculate the stress. This function exists
        solely for the purpose of calculating the stress for that particular construction. Hence we
        define it within the method<ns6190:emphasis xmlns:ns6190="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">calculateStress()</ns6190:emphasis>.<ns6191:programlisting xmlns:ns6191="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
<xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" parse="text" href="../source/MyConstruction.java"/>
</ns6191:programlisting>
    </ns6188:para>
    <ns6192:para xmlns:ns6192="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">This function implements the <ns6193:emphasis xmlns:ns6193="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">FunctionDoubleDouble</ns6193:emphasis>
        interface. The class can only be instantiated within the method in which it is defined, but
        a handle to instances of that class can be given to some other class. In our example an
        instance of our inner class is passed to our root solver. All the root solver needs to know
        is that our function can be queried for its value at a given $x$-value.</ns6192:para>
    <ns6194:para xmlns:ns6194="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Being an inner class, the <ns6195:emphasis xmlns:ns6195="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">RootSolver</ns6195:emphasis> is not able to
        typecast the<ns6196:emphasis xmlns:ns6196="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">FunctionDoubleDouble</ns6196:emphasis> it receives to a <ns6197:emphasis xmlns:ns6197="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">InnerFunction</ns6197:emphasis>. In fact, the only method the root solver can use
        (without reverting to really filthy means) is the <ns6198:emphasis xmlns:ns6198="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">value(double)</ns6198:emphasis> method.</ns6194:para>
    <ns6199:para xmlns:ns6199="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Finally, let us write a little main program which demonstrates that the above actually works:<ns6200:programlisting xmlns:ns6200="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
<xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" parse="text" href="../source/InnerClassTest.java"/>
</ns6200:programlisting>
    </ns6199:para>
    <ns6201:para xmlns:ns6201="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">If you run the program, you will receive the following output:<ns6202:programlisting xmlns:ns6202="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
stress = 0.31681060791015625
        </ns6202:programlisting>
    </ns6201:para>
</ns6178:section>