<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.webServices.wsdl.messages">

  <title>The 'message' section</title>

  <para> Messages consist of one or more logical parts. Each part is
    associated with a type from some type system using a message-typing
    attribute. The set of message-typing attributes is extensible. WSDL
    defines several such message-typing attributes for use with XML
    Schema: <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>element</title>
          <para>Refers to an schema element using a
            <emphasis>QName</emphasis>. This is the WS-I recommended
            method for tying a message to its schema type, and it implies that the XML schema
          must contain element declarations for all high-level messages.</para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>type</title>
          <para>Refers to an schema <literal>simpleType</literal> or
              <literal>complexType</literal> using a
            <emphasis>QName</emphasis>. This is the conceptually better
          approach, but not WS-I recommended for interoperability reasons.</para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist> The syntax for defining a message is as follows. The
      <emphasis>message-typing</emphasis> attributes (which may vary
    depending on the type system used) are <quote>element</quote> or
      <quote>type</quote>. <programlisting language="XML"><![CDATA[
<definitions .... >
    <message name="nmtoken"> *
        <part name="nmtoken" element="qname"? type="qname"?/> *
    </message>
</definitions>
        ]]></programlisting>
  </para>
  <para> The message <literal>name</literal> attribute provides a unique
    name among all messages defined within the enclosing WSDL document. </para>
  <para> The <literal>part</literal> name attribute provides a unique name
    among all the parts of the enclosing message. (usually not relevant,
    since Document/Literal SOAP messages only have one part.) </para>

</section>
