<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za  -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Selection of architectural strategies</title>
    <para>
        The core qualities required for the ticket vending system include accessibility, integrability, reliability, 
        flexibility, scalability, auditability and security.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Reliability</title>
        <para>
            In order to increase reliability we will use
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    passive redundency across all components,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    enforce a contracts based approach around all services, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    reliable communication channels between components via messaging services.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <para>
            The system must also provide a set of tools for resource monitoring.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Availability</title>
        <para>
            All strategies for poublishing availability will be used including registration with naming and trader services, 
            searchability by engines and advertizing. 
        </para>
        <para>
            In order to achieve good accessibility, the system will support a range of access channels including web and mobile
            clients for human service consumption and a web services channel making the services available to client systems.
            In addition the company will operate a call center which accesses the system through a the web interface.
        </para>
        <para>
            The system will also require localization support including cross language support as well as accessibility support. 
        </para>    
        <para>
            In order to ensure the processability of requests, the system will use thread pools for concurrent processing of client requests.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Scalability</title>
        <para>
            In order to achieve scalability, the system will
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    manage resources effectively by using
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            server driven load balancing,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            general resource reuse including thread, object and connection pooling as well as database caching, and
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            database indexing and database query optimization,
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    clustering at both, the presentation layer and across the processing stages, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    support scaling up of resources by being portable across platforms and databases,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para></para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Integrability</title>
        <para>
            Integrability will be supported by using an integration bus supporting pluggable adapters for the various ticket providers as well as for
            client systems. In addition, all services will be available via web services. Contracts for web services will be published in WSDL. Contracts for
            proprietary adapters will be published in a way aligned with the communication technology supported by the adapter.
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    
