<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.syntax.example.example">
    <title>A Simple Example</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>XML</primary>
    <secondary>example</secondary>
    <tertiary>simple</tertiary>
  </indexterm>
    <para> Have a look at the following entirely arbitrary XML document. At first glance, an XML
        document seems similar to an HTML document (if you have had exposure to them before) 
        <programlisting language="xml"><![CDATA[
<document>
    <title>XML course</title>
    <heading>XML Course</heading>
    <paragraph>
        The course is a 3 day course covering the XML funadamentals 
        and giving candidates ample practical exposure.
    </paragraph>
    <paragraph>
        Topics covered include XML syntax, Document Type Definitions
        (DTDs), the Document Object Model (DOM), the Simple API for
        XML (SAX) and many others.
    </paragraph>
</document> 
            ]]>
          </programlisting>
    </para>
    <para> XML allows you define your own vocabulary for data. The example above seems to obviously
        describe a document of some kind. XML tags enable you to use XML for exchanging
        self-describing data. Consider, for example, the following simple XML document for a travel
        log: 
      <programlisting language="xml">
            <![CDATA[ 
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>  
<travelLog>
    <trip>
        <from>Kensington</from>
        <to>Johannesburg Airport</to>
        <start>15-2-2001 11:30</start>
        <end>15-2-2001 12:00</end>
        <odoMeterStart>22345</odoMeterStart>
        <odoMeterEnd>22375</odoMeterEnd>
    </trip>
    <trip>
        <from>Johannesburg Airport</from>
        <to>Rosebank Mall</to>
        <start>15-2-2001 12:35</start>
        <end>15-2-2001 13:15</end>
        <odoMeterStart>22375</odoMeterStart>
        <odoMeterEnd>22403</odoMeterEnd>
    </trip>
</travelLog>
              ]]>
        </programlisting>
    </para>
    <para> Most people who would read that file would immediately understand the content. The
        information is presented in a very structured manner which makes automatic processing of the
        information a simple task.
    </para>
    <para> As in HTML, tags are used to define the markup. Every opening tag has a corresponding end
        tag. Between the tag is the content of that tag. The syntax is thus simply: 
        <programlisting language="xml">
            <![CDATA[
<tagName> content </tagName>
              ]]>
        </programlisting>
      The structure of the tags describe a tree-structured document.
    </para>
</section>
