<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.syntax.xmlElementTags.elementAttributes.xmlLang"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>xml:lang Attribute</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>xml:lang</primary>
  </indexterm>
    <para><literal>xml:lang</literal> specifies the language used within the element (as a
        2-character <emphasis>ISO 639</emphasis> code, for example <literal>en</literal> =
        English, <literal>af</literal> = Afrikaans.) Besides informing the reader about the
        language used, the language attribute can also be used in the case of automatic
        processing of the document by, for example: <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>Spell checkers. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Sorting algorithms (the sorting order may be language-specific).
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Indexing tools (the word delimiters may be language-specific). </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Presentation tools (the hyphenation rules may be
                    language-specific).</para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        <emphasis>ISO 639 with ISO 3166 sub-code:</emphasis> In this notation the 2 letter
        language code is followed by a ISO 3166 country sub-code. For example,
        <emphasis>en-US</emphasis> or <emphasis>en-GB</emphasis> specify english for
        Unites States of America or Great Britain. </para>
    <para>
        <emphasis>ISO 639 with regional description:</emphasis> Here the ISO 639 language
        code is followed by a regional description, typically for a local dialect, for
        example <emphasis>en-cockney</emphasis> or <emphasis>no-bokmaal</emphasis>. </para>
    <para>
        <emphasis>IETF RCF 1766 language code:</emphasis> These may be 3 or 8 letter codes
        registered with IANA. For example, <emphasis>I-LUX</emphasis> is the IANA code for
        Luxembourgish. </para>
    <para>
        <emphasis>User-defined code: </emphasis> Should you, for example, write a fable or
        novel about a fantasy community, you might develop your own language, or should you
        want to refer ta a local campus slang, you might have to define your own language
        code. In XML you do this via a code prepended with <emphasis>X-</emphasis>. For
        example, you might have an imaginary language used by mongoose in your fable. You
        might refer to the language as <emphasis>X-MONGOOSE</emphasis>. </para>
</section>