<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Integrability and accessibility</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>integrability</primary></indexterm>
        For some work products it is important that you can readily integrate them with other work products. For example,
        it may be important for an amplifier that I can integrate it with a wide range of signal sources and a wide range of
        audio output devices (speakers, earphones, ...). 
    </para>   
    
    <section>
        <title>Accessibility</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>accessibility</primary></indexterm>
            While integrability looks at the general integration ability of a work product with its environment,
            accessibility focuses on the integrability with the users of the work product in particular.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Integrability/accessibility versus integration requirements</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>integration requirements</primary></indexterm>
            While integration requirements refer to very specific requirements around being able to integrate
             the work product with specific external objects,
            integrability refers to the general ease with which a work product can be integrated with other 
            objects in general.
            Architectural requirements will typically contain both, very specific integration requirements 
            as well as general integrability requirements.
        </para>
        <para>
            Integrability thus refers to an aspect of the infrastructure of a work
            product which facilitates easy integration with other work products.
            Very specific integration features with specific elements from
            the environment do contribute to the integrability quality. They
            realize, instead, very specific integration requirements.
        </para>
        <para>
            For example, one may specifically require that the
            sales department or system needs to integrate with the accounting department or system or
            that the airport needs to integrate with an underground as well as how this integration needs
            to be done.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Applicability of integrability and accessibility requirements</title>
        <para>
            Integrability requirements are very common across architectural requirements for various types
            of work products. They are common for software, equipment and component
            architectures, particularly for components which are meant to be integrated within higher
            level work products.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Quantifying integrability requirements</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>integrability</primary><secondary>quantifying</secondary></indexterm>
            Integrability requirements is usually quantified by either
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    specifying bounds for the cost of integrating the work product with external objects,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    a list of strategies which should be employed to facilitate future integration of the work product
                    with its environment, or
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    explicitly specifying concrete features the architecture must have in order to support integrability.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>            