<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns147:section xmlns:ns147="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.ooMappings.specializationAlternatives.specializationAlternatives">
  <ns148:title xmlns:ns148="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Alternatives to inheritance</ns148:title>
  <ns149:para xmlns:ns149="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Inheritance is used for two purposes
    <ns150:orderedlist xmlns:ns150="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns151:listitem xmlns:ns151="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns152:para xmlns:ns152="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        To facilitate pluggability (substitutability) of instances of specialized classes.
      </ns152:para></ns151:listitem>
      <ns153:listitem xmlns:ns153="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns154:para xmlns:ns154="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        To facilitate code and state reuse.
      </ns154:para></ns153:listitem>
    </ns150:orderedlist>
  </ns149:para>
  <ns155:para xmlns:ns155="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    However, designs based on inheritance hierarchies are often found to be very inflexible and
    design practitioners have recommended for a long time to use delegation in preference to
    inheritance or specialization.
  </ns155:para>
  
  
  
  <ns156:section xmlns:ns156="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns157:title xmlns:ns157="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Common problems of specialization hierarchies</ns157:title>
    <ns158:para xmlns:ns158="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      One can find many examples where specialization may turn out to be a sub-optimal design
      choice. In fact, it is no easy to find examples of classes with significant business logic for
      which specialization cannot be shown to introduce significant problems.
    </ns158:para>
    <ns159:para xmlns:ns159="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Inheritance usually results in very rigid designs which result in
      <ns160:itemizedlist xmlns:ns160="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns161:listitem xmlns:ns161="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns162:para xmlns:ns162="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          high maintenance cost, and
        </ns162:para></ns161:listitem>
        <ns163:listitem xmlns:ns163="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns164:para xmlns:ns164="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          a design which does not naturally support objects whose behaviour changes over time.
        </ns164:para></ns163:listitem>
      </ns160:itemizedlist>
    </ns159:para>
    
    <ns165:section xmlns:ns165="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns166:title xmlns:ns166="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Modeling roles via specialization</ns166:title>
      <ns167:para xmlns:ns167="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        This is a common mistake made. For example, on first sight a design which has
        <ns168:literal xmlns:ns168="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Employee</ns168:literal> as a subclass of <ns169:literal xmlns:ns169="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Person</ns169:literal> with various types of
        employees like <ns170:literal xmlns:ns170="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Manager</ns170:literal>, <ns171:literal xmlns:ns171="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Developer</ns171:literal>,
        <ns172:literal xmlns:ns172="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">BusinessAnalyst</ns172:literal> as further subclasses, is not ideal. 
      </ns167:para>
      <ns173:para xmlns:ns173="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        To understand the inflexibility of such a design, consider what you would have to do if, for
        example, a <ns174:literal xmlns:ns174="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Developer</ns174:literal> becomes a <ns175:literal xmlns:ns175="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Manager</ns175:literal>. We would have
        to
        <ns176:itemizedlist xmlns:ns176="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          <ns177:listitem xmlns:ns177="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns178:para xmlns:ns178="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            create a new employee which now is a manager,
          </ns178:para></ns177:listitem>
          <ns179:listitem xmlns:ns179="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns180:para xmlns:ns180="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            copy state information like the employment history and so on over into the new employee
            object (which now is an instance of a <ns181:literal xmlns:ns181="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Manager</ns181:literal>),
          </ns180:para></ns179:listitem>
          <ns182:listitem xmlns:ns182="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns183:para xmlns:ns183="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            find all references to the original developer object and change them to refer to the
            manager object, and
          </ns183:para></ns182:listitem>
          <ns184:listitem xmlns:ns184="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns185:para xmlns:ns185="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            delete the original employee, <ns186:abbrev xmlns:ns186="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns186:abbrev> the <ns187:literal xmlns:ns187="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Developer</ns187:literal>.
          </ns185:para></ns184:listitem>
        </ns176:itemizedlist>
      </ns173:para>
      <ns188:para xmlns:ns188="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        This is not only excessively complex and error prone, it also is all wrong since the object
        identity has changed. We now have a new employee while it actually is still the same
        employee who only plays another role within the organization.
      </ns188:para>
      <ns189:para xmlns:ns189="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        A much better approach would be to define for an employee that he or she <ns190:emphasis xmlns:ns190="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">has a
          current role</ns190:emphasis> which he/she plays within the organization. The current role for an
        employee can now change without us having to create a new employee.
        Furthermore, it is now also easy to keep track of any historic roles.
      </ns189:para>
    </ns165:section>
    
    <ns191:section xmlns:ns191="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns192:title xmlns:ns192="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Modeling different service profiles via specialization</ns192:title>
      <ns193:para xmlns:ns193="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        It may seem very natural to model different types of accounts within a class hierarchy which
        introduces a base account encapsulating the concept of an account and all the commonalities
        across the various types of accounts. We could then have card accounts, checking accounts
        and loan accounts as specialization of <ns194:literal xmlns:ns194="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Account</ns194:literal>. These accounts would
        have further specializations. For example, home loan, vehicle loan and personal loan
        accounts could all be specializations of <ns195:literal xmlns:ns195="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">LoanAccount</ns195:literal>.
      </ns193:para>
      <ns196:para xmlns:ns196="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        On first sight such a design may seem the obvious solution. However, the rigidness of the
        class hierarchy may, once again, result in high maintenance costs due to its inflexibility.
      </ns196:para>
      <ns197:para xmlns:ns197="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        For example, one day the company may change the business model to allow checking, card and
        loan services on a single account which has a single balance and a single transaction
        history. The design based on a class hierarchy would not at all be able to cater for this
        change in business model and the entire accounts framework would most probably have to be
        re-implemented.
      </ns197:para>
      <ns198:para xmlns:ns198="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        A better solution would possibly be to have an account class which supports pluggable
        services like loan services, checking services and card services. This design would still
        cater for the traditional business model of having separate accounts which would be standard
        some account templates with standard service packages. But such a design would be a lot more
        flexible than an inheritance based design.
      </ns198:para>
    </ns191:section>
    
    <ns199:section xmlns:ns199="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns200:title xmlns:ns200="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Using specialization when only substitutability is required</ns200:title>
      <ns201:para xmlns:ns201="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        If only substitutability is required, one should use that relationship which provides only
        this - realization. Using specialization instead forces all developers of plug-in components
        to subclass a particular class where they may want to have a completely different
        realization which could even be based on another superclass. 
      </ns201:para>
      <ns202:para xmlns:ns202="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Using an abstract superclass for the base of the pluggable component would prevent any
        developer from inheriting from any other superclass as Java only supports single
        inheritance. Furthermore, even if this was not a problem,  using a abstract class instead of
        an interface does incur significant unnecessary overheads as the abstract class would still
        be instantiated and ultimately garbage collected -- unnecessary creation and deletion of
        objects can be a major contributor to performance problems in object oriented systems.  
      </ns202:para>
    </ns199:section>
    
    <ns203:section xmlns:ns203="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns204:title xmlns:ns204="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Using specialization for code reuse</ns204:title>
      <ns205:para xmlns:ns205="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        If the reason for using specialization is code reuse, then one should most probably use
        composition or even a weaker relationship like aggregation, association or a dependency
        instead of specialization.
      </ns205:para>
    </ns203:section>
  </ns156:section>
  
  <ns206:section xmlns:ns206="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns207:title xmlns:ns207="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Use the weakest suitable relationship</ns207:title>
    <ns208:para xmlns:ns208="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Inheritance or specialization is the strongest object-oriented relationship. It is a special
      form of composition which enforces full ownership of a superclass instance. 
    </ns208:para>
    <ns209:para xmlns:ns209="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      In general, designers will recommend to use the weakest relationship which realizes your
      requirements. This results in looser couplings and more flexible systems. Inheritance, being
      the strongest relationship, should thus only be used sparingly.
    </ns209:para>
  </ns206:section>
  
  
  <ns210:section xmlns:ns210="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns211:title xmlns:ns211="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Alternative solutions to inheritance</ns211:title>
    <ns212:para xmlns:ns212="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
       If specialization is in many cases undesirable, what should one use instead?   
    </ns212:para>
  
  <ns213:section xmlns:ns213="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns214:title xmlns:ns214="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Using realization instead of specialization</ns214:title>
    <ns215:para xmlns:ns215="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      This buys one substitutability/pluggability without introducing implementation locking or
      locking into a class hierarchy. Behind the scenes one may still use a class hierarchy, but the
      user code would not lock into the class hierarchy.
    </ns215:para>
  </ns213:section>
  
  <ns216:section xmlns:ns216="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns217:title xmlns:ns217="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Using delegation instead of specialization</ns217:title>
    <ns218:para xmlns:ns218="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Often, particularly when the main motivation behind using specialization has been code reuse,
      one can and should use delegation in preference. This may be in the form of composition or in
      the weaker forms of aggregation (if state, but not full ownership is required) or even
      association (if neither ownership nor state is required).
    </ns218:para>
  </ns216:section>
  
  <ns219:section xmlns:ns219="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns220:title xmlns:ns220="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Using a combination of realization and composition</ns220:title>
    <ns221:para xmlns:ns221="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      If one requires the full behaviour of specialization without introducing the inflexibility
      which class hierarchies introduce, one can use the solution the <ns222:emphasis xmlns:ns222="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">decorator
      pattern</ns222:emphasis> provides, <ns223:abbrev xmlns:ns223="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns223:abbrev> to use the combination of composition and
      realization instead of specialization. In this way we get code reuse and ownership as well as
      pluggability at the cost of not having the automatic request delegation to the superclass.
    </ns221:para>
    <ns224:para xmlns:ns224="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      However, now, we can dynamically (at-run-time) change the behaviour of objects and even
      construct pipes and filters based workflows (as is, for example, done in the Java streaming
      library).
    </ns224:para>
  </ns219:section>
  </ns210:section>
  
  
  <ns225:section xmlns:ns225="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns226:title xmlns:ns226="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">When and how should one use specialization and when should one not use it?</ns226:title>
    <ns227:para xmlns:ns227="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      We would recommend following the following guidelines around the use of specialization:
      <ns228:orderedlist xmlns:ns228="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns229:listitem xmlns:ns229="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns230:para xmlns:ns230="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          For substitutability prefer realization.
        </ns230:para></ns229:listitem>
        <ns231:listitem xmlns:ns231="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns232:para xmlns:ns232="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          For code reuse, use the weakest relationship which buys you what you need,
          <ns233:abbrev xmlns:ns233="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns233:abbrev> one of composition, aggregation, association or even only a dependency.
        </ns232:para></ns231:listitem>
        <ns234:listitem xmlns:ns234="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns235:para xmlns:ns235="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          If you need both, consider using the combination of realization and composition.
        </ns235:para></ns234:listitem>
        <ns236:listitem xmlns:ns236="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns237:para xmlns:ns237="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          Using class hierarchies for value objects is usually safe. 
        </ns237:para></ns236:listitem>
        <ns238:listitem xmlns:ns238="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns239:para xmlns:ns239="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          For classes which perform any
          significant business logic, one should avoid exposing the class  hierarchy, and provide
          access via an interface hierarchy instead. Using a class hierarchy behind the scenes may be
          ok, since one can change this at a later stage without affecting the user code.
        </ns239:para></ns238:listitem>
      </ns228:orderedlist>
    </ns227:para>
  </ns225:section>
</ns147:section>