<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Business processes</title>
  
  <indexterm>
    <primary>SOA</primary>
    <secondary>business processes</secondary>
  </indexterm>
  
  <para>
    Second-generation web services standards provide for two methods of
    explicitly specifying (though extensions in the WSDL contracts) how 
    services may interact (be coordinated) to realise a service or process. The
    <literal>WS-Coordination</literal> standard abstractly specifies the
    protocol for services to enlist in a coordination, and how to
    communicate regarding the start and end of processes, failures, etc.
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>WS-BPEL for centrally-defined business processes</title>
    <para>
      The WS-BPEL standard allows for the definition of a business process
      across other services, without having to write and deploy such a
      service as a component native to some SOA framework (such as Java EE
      or .NET).
    </para>
    <para>
      The business process is defined in a simpler, XML-based language,
      and deployed into any conforming SOA framework, which will then
      publish and realise the service.
    </para>
    <para>
      WS-BPEL processes are typically executed on an ESB (Enterprise
      Services Bus), a convenient SOA framework within which to flexibly
      assemble and manage business processes.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>WS-CDL for community-driven, choreographed processes</title>
    <para>
      WS-CDL allows for the specification of a <quote>template</quote>
      which indicates that how different role players may interact, in
      order to realise one or more processes.
    </para>
    <para>
      Rather than being controlled by a single entity, several role
      players may then voluntarily join a choreography, and participate in 
      the related business processes.
    </para>
    <note>
      <para>
        WS-CDL provides a natural conceptualisation of contracts or
        agreements between organisations, such as trade agreements,
        construction projects, or events. This is a complex standard,
        which specifies all semantics of enlisting and communicating in
        such as choreography. It is, as of 2007, not yet supported in most
        vendor platforms.
      </para>
    </note>
  </section>
    
</section>    