<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Introduction</title>
  
  <para>
    Contemporary SOA is a widely used term to describe the the SOA
    platform build on the <emphasis>second-generation</emphasis>
    web services technologies (WSDL 2.x, SOAP 1.2, WS-* standards).
  </para>  
  <para>
    Unlike <emphasis>fundamental SOA</emphasis>, which took advantage of the
    fact that the first-generation of web services standards were
    intrinsically suitable as a basic SOA platform, the second generation 
    of web services standards have been explicitly designed as the
    foundation of an extensible and sophisticated SOA platform.
  </para>
  <para>
    Most of the improvements pertain to the following three aspects:
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Support for more intricate message exchange patterns</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Support for <emphasis>policies</emphasis> and 
          <emphasis>service contracts metadata</emphasis> to
          enable a large number of qualities such as reliable
        messaging, atomic transactions, security, message addressing
        and routing, federation and referral, etc.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Explicit support for the <emphasis>composition</emphasis>
          and <emphasis>coordination</emphasis> of services, in which the 
          relationships between services (the context of collaboration) as
          well as business processes across these can be explicitly specified, 
          and then realised by the SOA framework.
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    Most of these improvements are manifested as improvements in the
    <emphasis>services contract</emphasis> (<literal>WSDL</literal>)
    through which these aspects of services can be published. In general,
    the improvements in terms of the services contracts allow for a
    greater degree of autonomy than with the first generation web services
    standards.
  </para>
  <note>
    <para>
      There is no single, official specification for contemporary SOA. It
      rather exists as a set of base standards, with a large (and
      open-ended) number of specifications that add various capabilities.
    </para>
  </note>
    
</section>    