<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Service contracts</title>
  
  <indexterm>
    <primary>SOA</primary>
    <secondary>contemporary</secondary>
    <tertiary>service contracts</tertiary>
  </indexterm>
  
  <para>
    The contract for one or more services is expressed using a WSDL 2.x
    document. As per version 1.x, the WSDL contains
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>all the messages that can be exchanged throughout the
        service, and the structure of each, defined through XML schema</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>the service itself,
        and all the operations provided. Each operation specifies the
        messages to be exchanged, as well as the faults that could be
        raised (i.e. the preconditions)</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>one or more <emphasis>bindings</emphasis> of the service
        to a transport layer and encoding scheme, i.e. how messages will
        be exchanged using literal XML over HTTP, for example.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>one or more service endpoints (addresses) through which
        the service may be used</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </para>
  <para>
    However, several further additions have been made, including
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          A formal description of <emphasis>collaborations</emphasis>,
          where any number of <emphasis>partner services</emphasis>
          can be declared, and the different roles they play to each other
          indicated. Thus, the <emphasis>context of collaboration</emphasis>
          is formally published.
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          Explicit support for <emphasis>policies</emphasis>
          and <emphasis>metadata</emphasis>, through which the
          non-functional aspects of the contract (i.e. the quality
          attributes) can be declared. The full capability of formal
          <emphasis>design-by-contract</emphasis> can thus be realised.
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          An improved mechanism for describing message exchange patterns,
          with a set of eight standard patterns.
        </para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </para>
    
</section>    