<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    xml:id="components.technologies.www.http.request.headers">
    <title>Common HTTP Request Headers</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>HTTP</primary>
    <secondary>request</secondary>
    <tertiary>headers</tertiary>
  </indexterm>
    <section>
        <title>Host:</title>
        <para>
            Specifies the name of the server to which the request is being made.
            While this may seem unusual, as the client already knows the name of the server in order
            to connect to it and send the request in the first place, this useful feature allows for
            <emphasis>virtual hosting</emphasis> - a concept which allows for more than one web host
            to reside on the same server. It is uneconomical to require a physical server (or network address) 
            for every web site, and Host headers allows a server hosting many virtual web sites to delegate
            the request to the correct site.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>User-Agent:</title>
        <para>Identifies the program that's making the request, in the
            form <literal>ProgramName/Version (Detailed Version Info) More Info,</literal> e.g.
            <literal>Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 5.1; en-US; rv:1.0.2) Gecko/20030208 Netscape/7.02</literal>
        </para>
        <para>
            The User-Agent header can be used to service a request tailored to specific output devices,
            e.g. different browsers, or platforms such as PDA's and cellular phones.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Accept:</title>
        <para>Specifies a space-separated list of content-types (MIME-types) which the
            application which made the request is capable of processing. 
        </para>
        <para>
            In the case of web browsers, these are usually the types that the browser can handle <emphasis>internally</emphasis>,
            e.g. it may be able to handle additional content types with the help of other applications.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Connection:</title>
        <para> The type of connection. (e.g. Keep-Alive) </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Keep-Alive:</title>
        <para>
            The keep alive timeout (milliseconds), if <emphasis>Keep-Alive</emphasis> is supported on the
            connection (HTTP 1.1 +). This type of connection allows for more than one request/response to be processed
            using the same connection, allowing for much greater efficiency
            during requests for web pages with many dependencies (such as images) - especially over slow
            connections. The client-sent Keep-Alive header is merely a request to the server, and the server
            may still specify its own timeout if it does not agree with the client's request.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Cookie:</title>
        <para>
            A cookie is one or more name=value pair(s) of information that the server asked the
            client to store. This is often used to uniquely identify a particular client
            upon subsequent requests, as theoretically
            only the client which received the cookie can reproduce it correctly, unless the connection
            has somehow been compromised. Security is often enhanced by employing a secure/encrypted
            network connection using HTTPS.
        </para>
      <para>
        Any cookies that the server asked the client to store must be sent back to the server
        with every request if the criteria (e.g. path, hostname and
        validity period) matches.
      </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Referer</title>
        <para> The Referer request-header field allows the client to specify, for the server's
            benefit, the address (URI) of the resource from which the Request-URI was obtained (the
            &quot;referrer&quot;, although the header field is intentionally misspelled.) 
            The Referer request-header allows a server to generate lists of back-links to resources for
            interest, logging, optimized caching, etc. It also allows obsolete or mistyped links to
            be traced for maintenance. The Referer field must not be sent if the Request URI was
            obtained from a source that does not have its own URI, such as input from the user
            keyboard (e.g. typing an address into the browser location bar). </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Accept-Encoding</title>
        <para>
            Standard HTTP messages are sent as-is (unencoded). However, the client may indicate
            that it supports one or more methods of encoding, typically for reasons of
            data compression. The server may then encode the message in a supported format,
            thereby saving large amounts of network bandwith (as text content typically compresses very well).
            The most common supported encoding is <literal>gzip</literal>, with others being <literal>deflate</literal>
            and <literal>compress</literal> (all different compression algorithms).
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>