<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">

    <title>Constructing Responses</title>
    
    <para>
        A response represents the channel from the server back to the client. All responses 
        implement the <literal>ServletResponse</literal> interface. This interface defines methods that 
        allow you to: 
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Retrieve an output stream to use to send data to the client. To send character data, 
                    use the <literal>PrintWriter</literal> returned by the response’s <literal>getWriter()</literal> 
                    method. To send binary data in a <literal>MIME</literal> body response, use the <literal>ServletOutputStream</literal> 
                    returned by <literal>getOutputStream()</literal>. 
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Indicate the content type (for example, <literal>application/xhtml+xml</literal>) being returned by the 
                    response with the <literal>setContentType(String)</literal> method. This method must 
                    be called before the response is committed. A registry of content type 
                    names is kept by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) at: 
                    <literal>http://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/</literal> 
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Indicate whether to buffer output with the <literal>setBufferSize(int)</literal> method. 
                    By default, any content written to the output stream is immediately sent to 
                    the client. Buffering allows content to be written, and be cached in memory before anything is physically 
                    sent back to the client. Thus providing the servlet with more time to set 
                    appropriate status codes and headers, or forward to another web resource. 
                    The method must be called before any content is written, or before the 
                    response is committed.
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Set localization information such as locale and character encoding.
                </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <para>
        HTTP response objects, <literal>HttpServletResponse</literal>, have fields representing HTTP 
        headers such as the following: 
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Status codes, which are used to indicate, for example, that a request is invalid
                    or that the client should re-request another resource (redirection). 
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Cookies, which are used to store application-specific information at the client. 
                    Sometimes cookies are used to maintain an identifier for tracking a user’s session.
                </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <note>
        <para>
            Servlets do not typically generate their own responses - to render a text-based response based
            on one or more Java objects, JSP is typically used. To generate binary response data (for example,
            an image) other java classes will typically be used.
        </para>
    </note>
    
</section>