<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns942:section xmlns:ns942="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2se.collections.collections.collections.interfaces.comparableComparatorInterfaces">    
        <ns943:title xmlns:ns943="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The Comparable and Comparator Interfaces</ns943:title>
        <ns944:para xmlns:ns944="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">In order to support sorted collections of objects, there must be some way of
          specifying how instances of your classes are compared (i.e. sorted).</ns944:para>
        <ns945:para xmlns:ns945="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The means to query the ordering between instances of classes is specified in the
            <ns946:literal xmlns:ns946="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Comparable</ns946:literal> and <ns947:literal xmlns:ns947="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Comparator</ns947:literal> interfaces. The services specified in these
          interfaces are used by sorting algorithms (e.g. <ns948:literal xmlns:ns948="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Collections.sort()</ns948:literal>) as well as by sorted collections (e.g.
            <ns949:literal xmlns:ns949="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">TreeSet</ns949:literal> and <ns950:literal xmlns:ns950="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">TreeMap</ns950:literal>).</ns945:para>
        <ns951:para xmlns:ns951="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"/>
        <ns952:section xmlns:ns952="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          <ns953:title xmlns:ns953="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The Comparable Interface</ns953:title>
          <ns954:para xmlns:ns954="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">This interface should be implemented by classes for which there is a natural
            ordering. For example, a natural ordering of persons could be their surname and first
            names (in that order).</ns954:para>
          <ns955:para xmlns:ns955="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The <ns956:literal xmlns:ns956="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Comparable</ns956:literal> interface thus specifies a way
            for obtaining the natural ordering of instances of certain classes. The primitive data
            types as well as quite a few standard Java classes (e.g. the <ns957:literal xmlns:ns957="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Date</ns957:literal> and the <ns958:literal xmlns:ns958="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">String</ns958:literal>
            classes) implement the <ns959:literal xmlns:ns959="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Comparable</ns959:literal> interface. For any
            other class one should specify that that class does implement this interface. The
            interface is very simple indeed:</ns955:para>

          <ns960:para xmlns:ns960="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"/>
            <ns961:para xmlns:ns961="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
                <ns962:programlisting xmlns:ns962="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 public interface Comparable
 {
   public int compareTo(Object o);
 }                
                </ns962:programlisting>
            </ns961:para>
<ns963:para xmlns:ns963="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The
              <ns964:literal xmlns:ns964="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">compareTo(Object)</ns964:literal> method should return a negative
            number if the argument object is before the <ns965:literal xmlns:ns965="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">this</ns965:literal>
            object within the ordering, zero if one cannot decide which of the two object should be
            first in an ordered list and positive otherwise.</ns963:para>
          <ns966:para xmlns:ns966="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">For example, we might want to sort persons on their names, comparing first surnames
            and then first names:</ns966:para>

          <ns967:para xmlns:ns967="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"/>
          <ns968:para xmlns:ns968="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            <ns969:programlisting xmlns:ns969="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 public class Person implements Comparable
 {
   public Person (String surName, String firstNames)
   {
     this.surName = surName;
     this.firstNames = firstNames;
   }
 
   public int compareTo (Object object)
   {
     Person person = (Person)object;
 
     int surNameComparison = surName.compareTo(person.surName);
 
     if (surNameComparison != 0)
       return surNameComparison;
     else
       return firstNames.compareTo(person.firstNames);
   }
 
   public boolean equals(Object object)
   {
     if (!(object instanceof Person))
       return false;
     else
       return (compareTo(object) == 0);
   }
 
   public String toString()
   {
       return firstNames + " " + surName;
   }
 
   public int hashCode()
   {
     return surName.hashCode() + 2*firstNames.hashCode();
   }
 
   private String surName, firstNames;
 }
            
            </ns969:programlisting>
          </ns968:para>
<ns970:para xmlns:ns970="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            The <ns971:literal xmlns:ns971="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">compareTo()</ns971:literal> method does the required comparison
            using the corresponding method of the <ns972:literal xmlns:ns972="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">String</ns972:literal> class.
            There is, however, one unfortuante aspect about the Java language definition, namely
            that there are three methods which have to be mutually consistent. These are the <ns973:literal xmlns:ns973="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">compareTo()</ns973:literal>, <ns974:literal xmlns:ns974="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">equals()</ns974:literal>
            and verb+hashCode()+ methods. The requirement is that when the <ns975:literal xmlns:ns975="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">compareTo()</ns975:literal> method returns zero for two objects, then the
              <ns976:literal xmlns:ns976="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">equals()</ns976:literal> method should return true and the <ns977:literal xmlns:ns977="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">hashCode()</ns977:literal> method should return the same hash code for the
            two objects.</ns970:para>
          <ns978:para xmlns:ns978="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">This is unfortunate because the responsibility for this consistency relies with the
            developer. Furthermore, at least the first two methods supply the same information.
            Fortunately one can (and should!) implement the <ns979:literal xmlns:ns979="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">equals()</ns979:literal> method in terms of the <ns980:literal xmlns:ns980="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">compareTo()</ns980:literal> method as is done in our <ns981:literal xmlns:ns981="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Person</ns981:literal> class.</ns978:para>
          <ns982:para xmlns:ns982="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">We can now insert persons randomly in one of the sorted collections. In the
            following example we have chosen a <ns983:literal xmlns:ns983="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">TreeSet</ns983:literal>:</ns982:para>

          <ns984:para xmlns:ns984="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"/>
          <ns985:para xmlns:ns985="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              <ns986:programlisting xmlns:ns986="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 import java.util.Iterator;
 import java.util.TreeSet;
 
 public class TreeSetOfPersons
 {
   public static void main(String[] args)
   {
     TreeSet sortedPersons = new TreeSet();
 
     sortedPersons.add(new Person("Smith", "Peter"));
     sortedPersons.add(new Person("Khumalo", "Tandi"));
     sortedPersons.add(new Person("Motaung","Alfred Johannes"));
     sortedPersons.add(new Person("Pieterse", "Francois"));
     sortedPersons.add(new Person("Ali", "Mohammed"));
     sortedPersons.add(new Person("Smith", "Jenny"));
     sortedPersons.add(new Person("Smith", "Jenny Ellen"));
 
     Iterator iter = sortedPersons.iterator();
     while(iter.hasNext())
       System.out.println(iter.next());
   }
 }
              
              </ns986:programlisting>
          </ns985:para>
          <ns987:para xmlns:ns987="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            The output of this program is shown below:
          </ns987:para>
          <ns988:para xmlns:ns988="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              <ns989:programlisting xmlns:ns989="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 Mohammed Ali
 Tandi Khumalo
 Alfred Johannes Motaung
 Francois Pieterse
 Jenny Smith
 Jenny Ellen Smith
 Peter Smith              
              </ns989:programlisting>
          </ns988:para>
          <ns990:para xmlns:ns990="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            The above method works fine for sorting algorithms but not necessarily for sorted
            collections. The reason for this is that if two objects which are equal (i.e. for which
            the <ns991:literal xmlns:ns991="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">compareTo()</ns991:literal> method returns zero) are inserted in
            a sorted collection (e.g. <ns992:literal xmlns:ns992="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">TreeSet</ns992:literal> or <ns993:literal xmlns:ns993="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">TreeMap</ns993:literal>), then the second insertion will be ignored because
            the collection assumes that that object is already contained in the collection. To
            remedy this we need to create a unique ordering such that two persons are never equal
            (except when they are physically the same object, having the same identity or
            reference). This can be done by sorting on an additional, unique field when the names
            are equal. The identity number would be a good candidate for this.</ns990:para>
          <ns994:para xmlns:ns994="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"/>
        </ns952:section>
        <ns995:section xmlns:ns995="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          <ns996:title xmlns:ns996="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Comparators</ns996:title>
          <ns997:para xmlns:ns997="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The above method of having your class implement <ns998:literal xmlns:ns998="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Comparable</ns998:literal> works fine as long as </ns997:para>
          
          <ns999:para xmlns:ns999="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              <ns1000:itemizedlist xmlns:ns1000="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
                 <ns1001:listitem xmlns:ns1001="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
                  <ns1002:para xmlns:ns1002="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Your class either implements <ns1003:literal xmlns:ns1003="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Comparable</ns1003:literal> or
                    you are in a position to define a subclass which does. </ns1002:para>
                </ns1001:listitem>
                <ns1004:listitem xmlns:ns1004="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
                  <ns1005:para xmlns:ns1005="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">You are happy with the natural ordering for that type and you do not want to
                    order on some other criterion.</ns1005:para>
                </ns1004:listitem>
              </ns1000:itemizedlist>
          </ns999:para>  
            
          <ns1006:para xmlns:ns1006="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Assume somebody wants to sort persons on first names instead of on surnames and
            assume other services still have to use the natural ordering on surnames. In this case
            we have to define the new ordering separately to the natural ordering. This is done in a
            separate class which contains a<ns1007:literal xmlns:ns1007="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">compareTo()</ns1007:literal> method
            receiving the two objects (persons in our case) which have to be compared as arguments
            and returning again a negative, zero or positive integer for the ordering information.
            The method is usually implemented in another stand-alone class which implements the
              <ns1008:literal xmlns:ns1008="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Comparator</ns1008:literal> interface:</ns1006:para>

          <ns1009:para xmlns:ns1009="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"/>
          <ns1010:para xmlns:ns1010="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              <ns1011:programlisting xmlns:ns1011="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 public interface Comparator
 {
   public int compareTo(Object object1, Object object2);
 }              
              </ns1011:programlisting>
          </ns1010:para>
<ns1012:para xmlns:ns1012="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            We can now implement a <ns1013:literal xmlns:ns1013="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">FirstNameComparator</ns1013:literal>:</ns1012:para>

          <ns1014:para xmlns:ns1014="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"/>
          <ns1015:para xmlns:ns1015="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
                  <ns1016:programlisting xmlns:ns1016="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 class MyApplication
 {
   ...
   static final private interface FirstNamesComparator
   {
     public int compareTo(Object object1, Object object2)
     {
       Person person1 = (Person)object1;
       Person person2 = (Person)object2;
 
       int firstNameComparison = person1.getFirstNames().compareTo
                                   (person2.getFirstNames());
       if (firstNameComparison != 0)
         return firstNameComparison;
       else
         return person1.getIdentityNumber().compareTo
                  (person2.getIdentityNumber());
     }
   }
   ...
 }
                  
      </ns1016:programlisting>
  </ns1015:para>
     <ns1017:para xmlns:ns1017="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            Note that this comparator was specifically created for <ns1018:literal xmlns:ns1018="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">MyApplication</ns1018:literal>. We are only going to use it from within
            instances of <ns1019:literal xmlns:ns1019="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">MyApplication</ns1019:literal>. Furthermore, it does not
            need to know the state of the application. It really is only a utility function used by
            our application. We thus declare the class a static nested class.</ns1017:para>
          <ns1020:para xmlns:ns1020="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"/>
        </ns995:section>
      </ns942:section>