<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Functional requirements validation</title>
    <para>
        
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>User role/contract</title>
                    <para>
                        The is a single association between a concrete use case and user role/contract represented by an interface.        
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Use case/functional requirement is required</title>
                <para>
                    Each concrete use case/functional requirement is linked via one or more <literal><![CDATA[<<requires>>]]></literal> dependencies
                    to the stake holder(s) who require it.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Stake holder is represented by an interface or a use case</title>
                    <para>
                        Each stake holder is represented by an interface or a use case.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>
                        
                    </title>
                </formalpara>
                <para>
                Only a single level of granularity is shown - i.e. there are no functional requirements of functional requirements shown.
                <note><para>
                    This is a restriction on the view only.
                </para></note>
            </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Each concrete use case/functional requirement is required</title>
        <para>
            URDAD requires that for each concrete use case or functional requirement one specifies which stake holder requires it, 
            <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> that there is a <literal><![CDATA[<<requires>>]]></literal> dependency from a stake holder
            to the concrete use case.
        </para>
        
        <para>
            The OCL constraint which validates that looks like this:
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
supplierDependency->collect(g|g.oclIsKindOf(Generalization))->isEmpty() 
or  
supplierDependency->exists (d|d.appliedStereotypeInstance.classifier->exists(name='requires'))
]]></programlisting>
            </para>
            <para>
                In this expression we first check whether the use case is an abstract use case. If so, we return <literal>true</literal> signalling
                that the test is passed. In order to determine whether a use case is an abstract use case we query whether the use case is the
                supplier of a generalization dependency:
                <programlisting><![CDATA[
if (                    
                    ]]></programlisting>
            The rules applied are the following
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><programlisting>
                    All abstract use cases pass the test. This is done by specifying that <literal>true</literal> should be returned
                    for each use case which is the supplier of a generalization dependency:
                    
                </programlisting></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>    
</section>    