<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.webServices.soap.benefits">
    
    <title>The Benefits of SOAP</title>
  
  <indexterm>
    <primary>SOAP</primary>
    <secondary>benefits</secondary>
  </indexterm>
    
    <para>
        SOAP messages provide a universal representation of exchanges messages (such as
        service requests, service responses, or fault messages) which are easily
        processed in any environment that can process XML based on XML Schema. The
        specification is much simpler to understand and implement than previous universal
        intergation efforts, such as that provided by CORBA's IIOP protocol.
    </para>
  <para>
    SOAP defines how messages can be structured and processed in a way which is completely independent of any programming
    language or platform. Many platforms, however, provide the ability to
    <emphasis>bind</emphasis> schema-based XML to objects native to that platform, allowing
    systems to work with SOAP messages very naturally.
  </para>
    <para>
        The SOAP Specification does not include details of low-level network protocols or sockets - SOAP Messages
        are usually carried as the payload of an existing protocol. For example, the most common SOAP <emphasis>transport</emphasis>
        layer in use today is <literal>HTTP</literal> (typically used by web browsers to access web pages). The SOAP
        Specification thus only includes <emphasis>abstract</emphasis> <quote>message exchange patterns</quote>, which can be
        realised in any existing protocol, such as <literal>SMTP</literal> (E-Mail), or even raw <literal>TCP/IP</literal> (network
        sockets).
    </para>
  <para>
    The preferred transport layer (and currently the only one officially endorsed
    by the <emphasis>WS-I</emphasis> basic profile) is HTTP. Though most network access controls (such as firewalls) will
    block binary protocols such as IIOP, they almost all allow the text-based HTTP protocol, making almost all nodes on the internet
    eligible for SOAP access.
  </para>
  <para>
    The SOAP specification does not constrain the message exchange patterns that could be
    used to exchange messages, which means that the future possibilities of complex interactions
    are not stifled. In practice, however, most messages are exchange in a synchronous
    (In-Out) or asynchronous (In-only) scheme. 
  </para>
    
    
    <para>
        SOAP enjoys strong support from all the large software vendors such as <emphasis>IBM</emphasis>, <emphasis>Microsoft</emphasis>,
      Sun Microsystems, BEA, Oracle, as well as the open-source community. Combined with the
        fact that Microsoft never supported the open <literal>CORBA</literal> standard, and that it's own attempt at a distributed object technology
        (<literal>DCOM</literal>) was a commercial and technical failure, means that SOAP
      is now the <emphasis>de facto</emphasis> standard for integrating heterogeneous systems.
    </para>
</section>