<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Korn Shell - pdksh</title>
    <para>
        The Korn shell, developed by David Korn after the bourne and c shell, incorporates many of it's predecessors features. 
        The shell is available as a commercial version as well as a public domain version (pdksh) which includes most 
        features from its commercial equivalent, and some additional ones as well. 
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Command line completions</title>
        <para>
            By default, command line completion is disabled. To enable it, set a flag to either use <emphasis role="strong">vi</emphasis> or <emphasis role="strong">emacs</emphasis> style syntax within the shell. To use vi syntax, use : <emphasis role="strong">set -o vi</emphasis> and alternatively to use emacs syntax, use : <emphasis role="strong">set -o emacs</emphasis>. Depending on the selection made, command line completion is invoked by pressing esc \ (escape - backslash) for vi syntax, and the escape key twice for emacs.
        </para>
    </section>	
    
    <section>
        <title>Access to previously used commands</title>
        <para>
            A list of previously used commands is stored in the ~/.kshrc_history file. The number of commands stored is determined 
            by the value of the <emphasis role="strong">HISTSIZE</emphasis> environment variable.
            The <emphasis role="strong">history</emphasis> command can be used to list the commands previously used. 
            To recall a command, the history index can be used via :
            <programlisting>
$history
   15  du -h                                                                                      
   16  vi pom.xml                                                                                 
   17  cd solmsRoot/                                                                              
   18  svn commit -m ''                                                                           
   19  svn status                                                                                 
   20  svn add resources/information/operatingSystems                                             
   21  svn commit -m ''                                                                           
   22  cd projects/solms/training/courses/xmlWebServicesJava/                                     
   23  renderSD xmlWebServicesJava.docbook     ...
		</programlisting>
        </para>
    </section>	
    
    <section>
        <title>Environment Variables</title>
            <para>
                Environment variables are set using the <emphasis role="strong">export</emphasis> command.
                <programlisting><![CDATA[
export <replacementName> <replacementValue>                    
                    ]]></programlisting>                
            </para>
    </section>
    
        <section>
            <title>Listing environment variables</title>
            <para>
                To list all environment variables the <emphasis role="strong">set</emphasis> command is used.
            </para>
            <programlisting>
set             
ANT_HOME=/usr/share/ant                                                                                    
CVS_RSH=ssh                                                                                                
EDITOR=/usr/bin/vim                                                                                        
HISTFILESIZE=500                                                                                           
HISTSIZE=500                                                                                               
HOME=/home/fritz                                                                                           
HOSTNAME=fritz                                                                                             
HOSTTYPE=i686                                                                                              
JAVA_HOME=/home/fritz/.gentoo/java-config-2/current-user-vm                                                
PATH=/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/opt/bin:/usr/i686-pc-linux-gnu/gcc-bin/4.3.4:/usr/games/bin
PIPESTATUS=([0]="0")
PPID=5121
TERM=xterm
USER=fritz
XSESSION=Xfce4
...				
			</programlisting>
        </section>	
    
    <section>
        <title>Configuration Files</title>
        <formalpara>
            <title>/etc/profile</title>
            <para>System wide configuration file contains parameters for all users</para>
        </formalpara>
        <formalpara>
            <title>~/.profile</title>
            <para>User specific configuration file used to overide parameters configured at system level or configure user specific parameters</para>
        </formalpara>
    </section>		
</section>    