<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-06-01 -->
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <info>
    <title>Business Analysis using UML</title>
    <subtitle>Competency exam</subtitle>  
<!--    <xi:include
      href="../../../../../../resources/information/solms/resources/skills/FritzSolms/authorInfo.docbook"
      />-->
    <author><personname>Solms Training and Consulting</personname></author>
    <pubdate>2 April 2009</pubdate>
  </info>


  <orderedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Explain the difference between composition, specialization and association.
        Consider the classes <literal>Book</literal>, <literal>Member</literal>,
        <literal>LibraryItem</literal>, <literal><![CDATA[]]>Journal</literal>, <literal>Catalog</literal>
        and <literal>Author</literal>. What relationship would you suggest
        between these classes? <emphasis>(10 points)</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Explain, how you would use interfaces to specify an SLA (Service Level Agreement) in UML.
        How would you specify your functional and non-functional  requirements?
        The library uses couriers to deliver books to their corporate clients. Provide an example
        SLA for such a courier.
        <emphasis>(20 points)</emphasis>
      </para>  
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        A library lends out books. The system must manage the inventory as well as the borrowing of books.
        Only members may borrow books. A member may only borrow books if there are no overdue books
        on his/her account and if the limit for the number of books the member may borrow is not exceeded. 
        A book may also only be borrowed if it has not been reserved by another member.
        Uncollected reservations expire after 3 days. The books may be borrowed via a web interface in which 
        case the library will have the books delivered at an extra charge. If a book is collected in person, it is 
        returned in person. If it is delivered, the book will be collected by the courier service who delivered 
        the book. If a book is returned late, late fees are charged. If a book is lost or not returned within a
        write-off period, the member is charged with the full price of the book as well as an administration fee. 
        The member may not borrow any books until this is settled in full.
        <orderedlist>
          <listitem><para>
            Formalize the client requirements following the steps specified for
            the URDAD analysis phase.
          </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            Design the high level business process following the URDAD design methodology. Start
            with responsibility identification and allocation and do one iteration for the first level
            of granularity. Select only one service provider from the current level of granularity and
            define a services contract for that service provider.
          </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            Choose that service provider as the subject for the next level of granularity. Start off
            the next level of granularity, performing only the lower level analysis, responsibility
            identification and allocation steps.
          </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
        <emphasis>(80 points)</emphasis>
      </para></listitem>
  </orderedlist>
</article>
