<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-2-18 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Responsibilities of business analysis</title>
    <para> The responsibilities of the business analysis domain include <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Assist in formulating a business case</title>
                    <para> 
                        Business analysis usually assists in formulating the business case for
                        a new service or changes to an excisting service.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Elicit and documenting stake holder requirements</title>
                    <para> Business analysis needs to capture the detailed requirements around any
                        service or use case the organization aims to provide to any of its users
                            (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> clients, investors, employeees, ...). For each
                        use case it needs to identify the stake holders which have an interest in
                        that use case as well as the detailed requirements they have for that use
                        case. </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Design and document technology neutral business processes</title>
                    <para> Business analysis is responsible for designing business processes without
                        concern about the implementation infrastructure and technologies. These
                        business processes would then be mapped by development (including software
                        development) onto the current choice of implementation technologies. <note>
                            <para> System requirements can be extracted from the technology neutral
                                business process design by projecting out those aspects of the
                                business process which must be realized within the system. </para>
                        </note>
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Assist strategic management to define the organization's vision and
                        mission</title>
                    <para> Having an understanding of the stake holder requirements for the
                        organization, business analysis can assist strategic management in defining
                        the vision and mission of the organization. </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Design and document the architecture of the organization</title>
                    <para> Business analysis can assist organizational architecture to define a
                        conceptual organizational architecture. This architecture is then mapped by
                        management and the technical team onto an implementation architecture.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>

</section>
