<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Quality requirements</title>
    <para>
        Some of the core reasons for wanting to replace the current system lie in its inability to realize the required qualities.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Reliability</title>
        <para>
            The new system must be able to provide a considerably higher level of reliability. In particular it should be able to
            realize 99.99% of service requests as per contract.
        </para>
        <para>
            The new system should be able to enforce data ownership and integrity and should support transaction management across
            to the ticket provider systems.
        </para>
        <para>
            Single points of failure should be removed and the system should aim for supporting redundancy across all components. 
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Scalability</title>
        <para>
            The new system should be able to handle 20 000 concurrent users and should be able to scale to accommodate future growth.
            The current expected annual growth rate is 10%. 
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Accessibility</title>
        <para>
            The new system must have strong accessibility support. In particular, in the short term the system must be accessible by humans via
            all commonly used and standards compliant web browsers as well a via mobile devices and by systems via web services.
        </para>
        <para>
            The human interfaces need to provide localization and cross language support.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Flexibility</title>
        
        <para>
            The system must be significantly more flexible, publishing services through a clean services API which can be accessed through
            a number of channels. It should support assemblibility of services (<abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> that higher level services can be
            assembled from lower level services) and publication of services contracts. These services should be made available through
            a range of access channels.
        </para>
        <para>
            The system should also provide an environment where domain objects are reused across business processes. This will increase
            the re-use, reduce the inconsistency risk and code bulk and should improve the flexibility of the application.
        </para>
         <para>
             To further enhance flexibility, contracts and pricing calculations can be managed through usable interfaces,
            processes should be able to be modified rapidly and at low cost and changes to the information provided to and received from ticket vendors
            should be easily implementable.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Usability</title>
        <para>
            The new system must have significantly improved process management with long-running business processes managed from within the 
            system itself. All operational use cases should be fully supported by the system removing any need to access the database directly.
        </para>
    </section>


    <section>
        <title>Integrability</title>
        <para>
            Initially the system must support simple integrability through to ticket providers and to customer systems. 
            One should be able to easily
            add adapters to new ticket providers and adapters for customers who want to integrate the ticket vending services within their business
            processes.
        </para>
        <para>
            Further integrability may be required in the long term. In particular, it is envisaged that in the future the system should support
            integrability with review sites, short term insurance providers, loyalty programs of banks and so forth. 
        </para>
        <para>
            All database based integration should be moved over to use services based integration (both, reporting services and services which
            update any information).
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Security</title>
        <para>
            All users should be authenticated and should be given user roles through which the accessibility of services is managed. The authorization
            should be enforced at the services layer, ensuring consistent access control of all resources across access channels.
        </para>
        <para>
            All sensitive information should be exchanged via secure communication channels ensuring confidentiality 
            of exchanged data.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Monitorability and auditability</title>
        <para>
            The new system must support full auditability of all business processes as well as monitorability of the various system components.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Performance</title>
        <para>
            Performance should be sufficient for users to be able to execute their work flows efficiently.
        </para>
    </section>
</section>        