<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Evolutionary path for introducing SOA-based software systems</title>
    <para>
        Normally one will make a large technology change iteratively. Similarly, it is advisable to introduce SOA based
        technologies iteratively within an organization. Often these technologies are introduced in the following order
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>SOA as integration bus</title>
                <para>
                    The first step is normally to use SOA as an integration bus. The ESB is used to perform routing and
                    transformations, but business processes are not yet deployed into the SOA. This already requires formal
                    contact specification for the services which are published on the bus.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Technology neutral, service centric business process design</title>
                <para>
                    The second step is usually to introduce technology neutral, services centric
                    business process design within the organization. These business processes
                    can initially be mapped onto code executing within application servers, but will
                    ultimately be hosted within the SOA itself.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Host business processes within SOA</title>
                <para>
                    The next step is to start hosting the business processes (first of non-mission critical services)
                    within the SOA, usually encoded as executable BPEL.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Federated, distributed ESB</title>
                <para>
                    The next phase is usually to embrace the SOA architecture in its full vision, and continuously
                    optimizing the deployment for performance and vision alignement, technical simplicity and
                    business value generation. The organization may fully embrace the software as service vision
                    and support dynamic service discovery for its business processes.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
    </para>
    
</section> 