<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Committing modifications via <literal>svn commit</literal></title>
    <para>
        To commit modifications to a repository you use the <literal>commit</literal> command. This sends the modifications
        (changes, additions and deletions) to the repository and creates a new revision number for this new repository state.
    </para>
    <para>
        Commits are <emphasis>atomic</emphasis>, i.e. either all changes are committed or nothing at all. Thus, if there are
        any outstanding problems which still need to be resolved then the entire commit will fail.
    </para>
    <para>
        You are required to provide a message for the commit. If you don't do so via the <literal>--message</literal> 
        (<literal>-m</literal>) or <literal>--file</literal> (<literal>-f</literal>) command line parameters, you will be prompted 
        to provide one via the default editor of your system.
    </para>
    <para>
        You can commit a single resource (e.g. a single file) or a list of resources. Each resource can be either a file or a directory.
        If the resource is a directory, then its contents is added too.
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn commit [resource1] [resource2] -m "Message here"
]]></programlisting>
        If no resources are specified then all changes in the current directory, and anywhere below, are committed. Thus
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn commit            
]]></programlisting>
        simply commits the changes made withing the current directory.
    </para>
    <para>
        If any of the modified resources have been, in the mean time, modified on the server side, then subversion will require
        you to update your working copy firs. This may result in your changes being merged with those made during previous
        commits and this, in turn, may result in conflicts which have to be resolved prior to committing your changes.
    </para>
</section>    
    