<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>
        Preconditions
        <indexterm><primary>Object Constraint Language</primary><secondary>preconditions</secondary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>preconditions</primary><secondary>in OCL</secondary></indexterm>
    </title>
    <para>
        Preconditions are assigned to services. They specify those conditions under which the service provider may refuse
        the service without violating the services contract.
    </para>
    <para>
        Preconditions are specified in OCL by a <literal>pre:</literal> prefix on the expression. The context of the constraint
        must be a service which is specified wither for a class or for an interface.
    </para>
    <para>
        For example, we may want to specify that an account may refuse the debit service if the debit amount is such that the
        resultant balance would fall below the minimum balance for the account. This precondition could be specified as follows:
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
context Account::debit(amount:Real): TransactionConfirmation
    pre: amount <= self.balance - self.minimumBalance
    ]]></programlisting>
        <note><para>
            Each precondition is usually mapped onto an exception class. The exception does not signal an error in the service
            provider -- it only specifies that the service provider chose or was not able to provide the requested service because
            a particular precondition was not met.
        </para></note>
    </para>
    <para>
        We can give the precondition a name. For example, we could name the above precondition <literal>sufficientFunds</literal>:
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
context Account::debit(amount:Real): TransactionConfirmation
    pre sufficientFunds: amount <= self.balance - self.minimumBalance
    ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
</section>    