<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-06-01 -->
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <info>
    <title>Object-Oriented Analysis and Design using UML</title>
    <subtitle>Competency exam</subtitle>
    <authorgroup>
      <author>
        <personname>
          <honorific>Dr</honorific>
          <firstname>Fritz</firstname>
          <surname>Solms</surname>
        </personname>        
      </author>
    </authorgroup>  
    <xi:include href="../../../../../../resources/information/society/organizations/private/solms/resources/skills/authors/fritzSolmsContact.xdoc" /> 
    <pubdate>June 2009</pubdate>
  </info>
  <para>
  <orderedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Explain the difference between composition, specialization and association.
        Consider the classes <literal>Vehicle</literal>, <literal>Rental</literal>,
        <literal>Client</literal>, <literal>Period</literal>, <literal>Car</literal>
        and <literal>Driver</literal>. What relationship would you suggest
        between these classes?
        <emphasis>(10 points)</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Explain, in your own words, the benefits of using interfaces. What is required for
        a complete functional requirements specification for a service? Explain the concepts
        of pre- and post-conditions and quality requirements. 
        <emphasis>(10 points)</emphasis>
      </para>  
    </listitem>
    <listitem><para>
      What, in your opinion, are the benefits and drawbacks, if any, of using URDAD as
      a methodology for technology neutral design? 
      <emphasis>(10 points)</emphasis>
    </para></listitem>      
    <listitem>
      <para>
        A vehicle rental company wants to have a system developed which supports 
        their business.  Clients can request quotes and book vehicles and rent vehicles.
        Optionally clients may purchase insurance for the rental period through the company. 
        When a vehicle is rented the
        client's driver's license details must be verified against
        the requirements for that vehicle. Optionally additional drivers may be assigned
        for the rental period. Each vehicle
        has a number of passengers it can carry, an engine size
        and falls within one of a number of categories (e.g.
        economy class, family vehicle and luxury vehicle).
        The charge for the rental is a daily or hourly rate plus
        a rate per kilometer. If the vehicle is not returned
        with a full petrol tank the client is charged for a full
        tank, irrespective of the amount of petrol currently in the
        vehicle. At any point in time, a vehicle is either available, rented,
        in maintenance or withdrawn from the rental pool. 
        <orderedlist>
          <listitem><para>
            Use a use cse diagram to specify the scope of the system.
          </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            Follow the URDAD
            methodology in order to develop the analysis and design for the first level
            of granularity for the <emphasis>rent vehicle</emphasis> use case. In particular,
            include 
            <itemizedlist>
              <listitem><para>
                the stake holder functional requirements,
              </para></listitem>  
              <listitem><para>
                the user work flow requirements,
              </para></listitem>
              <listitem><para>
                the services contract for the use case,
              </para></listitem>
              <listitem><para>
                the responsibility allocation across lower level services providers,
              </para></listitem>
              <listitem><para>
                the business process specification, and
              </para></listitem>
              <listitem><para>
                the collaboration context.
              </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            Discuss how you would go over to the next lower level of granularity.
          </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
     </para></listitem>   
  </orderedlist>
  </para>

</article>
