<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-06-01 -->
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <info>
    <title>Object-Oriented Analysis and Design using UML</title>
    <subtitle>Competency exam</subtitle>
    <authorgroup>
      <author>
        <personname>
          <honorific>Dr</honorific>
          <firstname>Fritz</firstname>
          <surname>Solms</surname>
        </personname>        
      </author>
    </authorgroup>  
    <xi:include href="../../../../../../resources/information/society/organizations/private/solms/resources/skills/authors/fritzSolmsContact.xdoc" /> 
    <pubdate>June 2009</pubdate>
    </info>
  <para>
  <orderedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Explain the difference between UML composition, specialization and association relationships.
        Consider the classes <literal>Flight</literal>, <literal>Itenary</literal>,
        <literal>AirlineTicket</literal>, <literal>HotelBooking</literal>, <literal>Period</literal>
        and <literal>Hotel</literal>. Use a UML diagram to show the relationships between
        these classes? <emphasis>(10 points)</emphasis>
      </para>
    </listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        Explain, in your own words, the benefits of using interfaces. What is required for
        a complete functional requirements specification for a service? Explain the concept
        of a quality requirement. Explain how you would use the above concepts to define a contract
        for a service provider. <emphasis>(10 points)</emphasis>
      </para>  
    </listitem>
    <listitem><para>
      Provide a practical example for using containment, explain why you would use it and how you would implement it 
      in an implementation language of your choice. <emphasis>5 points</emphasis>
    </para></listitem>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        An itinerary is a plan for a journey containing a list of bookings. 
        A system for a travel agency facilitates bookings of itineraries which may include
        flight bookings and hotel bookings. The system needs to facilitate the creation
        and modification of an itinerary. Once the client is happy with an itinerary and confirms 
        it, the bookings are made with the relevant service providers (airlines and hotels). 
        <orderedlist>
          <listitem><para>
            Develop a use-case model for the system and use use case abstraction to define the scope
            of the system.
          </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            Choose the <emphasis>createItinerary</emphasis> use case and follow the URDAD design
            algorithm to design the business process starting with the responsibility identification and
            allocation steps. Use one sequence and one activity diagram to specify the business process at this
            first level of granularity. Project out the collaboration context.
          </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            Select one of the role players from the previous level of granularity and specify a services
            contract for that role player. 
          </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            Discuss how you would go down to the next lower level of granularity. <emphasis>(75 points)</emphasis>
          </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
        <note><para>
          An itinerary is a travel schedule containing an ordered list of travel bookings. 
        </para></note>
      </para>
    </listitem>
  </orderedlist>
  </para>

</article>
