<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-06-01 -->
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <info>
    <title>Object-Oriented Analysis and Design using UML and URDAD</title>
    <subtitle>Competency exam</subtitle>
    <authorgroup>
      <author>
        <personname>
          <firstname>Fritz</firstname>
          <surname>Solms</surname>
        </personname>
      </author>
      <!-- xi:include href="../../../../../../resources/information/solms/resources/skills/authors/fritzSolmsContact.docbook" / -->
    </authorgroup>  
    <pubdate>19 August 2008</pubdate>
  </info>
  <orderedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          Explain the following relationships:
          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
              specialization,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
              realization,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
              aggregation,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
              association, and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
              composition.
            </para></listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
          Consider the classes from a video shop domain:
          <literal>Rental</literal>, <literal>Client</literal>,
          <literal>Film</literal>, <literal>Game</literal>, 
          <literal>Video</literal>  and <literal>Account</literal>. 
          What relationship would you suggest
          between these classes? <emphasis>(15 points)</emphasis>
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          Explain, in your own words, the benefits of model driven development and the URDAD design
	  methodology.
          <emphasis>(15 points)</emphasis>
        </para>  
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>
          A video store hires out items which are either videos or DVDs. Each rental
          is for a specific period depending on whether the video is rented for
          a single day or as part of a package like a 5 videos for 7 days package.
          The price depends on the type of rental and the category of the video.
          Late returns are debited as multiples of one-day rentals for each late
          item.
          Videos which are not rewound carry a surcharge upon returnal. Each customer
          has to have an account and can pay money into the account. All charges
          are debited to the appropriate customer account.
          <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>
              Develop a use-case model for a system for a video store. Choose the 
              <emphasis>rentVideo/DVD</emphasis> use case, depict a usage scenario and
              use an activity diagram to show the other scenarios.
            </para></listitem>  
            <listitem><para>
              Identify the core responsibilities which need to be addressed. 
              Assign these responsibilities to core system components. In this context you may
              identify further secondary actors.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
              Show how these core system components collaborate to realize the use case,
              first in the context of a single scenario and then in an activity diagram with
              object flows and potentially concurrencies (forking and perhaps synchronization).
           </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
              Extract the collaboration context showing the static model for that level of granularity.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
              Discuss how you would go to the next lower level of granularity. <emphasis>(70 points)</emphasis>
            </para></listitem>
           </orderedlist> 
        </para></listitem>
    </orderedlist>

</article>
