<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Web Services Standards for SOA</title>
    <para>
        Although SOA is not bound into any particular integration technology, the most prominent integration
        technology used is Web Services. Furthermore, many aspects of an SOA can be standardized by using
        appropriate web services standards.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Standards for service registries</title>
        <para>
            Standards are particularly important for service registries. Traditionally UDDI has been used
            but more and more service registries support the ebXML-Registry specification.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Standards for contract specification</title>
        <para>
            Services contracts are usually encoded in the <emphasis>Web Services Description Language</emphasis>,
            WSDL. WSDL enables one to specify both, 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>an abstract service definition, as well as</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>a concrete service definition.</para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <section>
            <title>Abstract service definitions</title>
            <para>
                Abstract service definitions focus on the web service's interface characteristics.
                They have no reference to the technology used to communicate with the web service or to
                where the web service is hosted or the technologies used to realize the web service.
            </para>
            <para>
                The abstract definition of a web service is thus able to survive changes in the location
                of the web service, the protocols used to access it and its technology platform.
            </para>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Concrete service definitions</title>
            <para>
                Concrete service definitions specify the concrete binding details for a service including 
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        the protocol used o communicate with the service, and
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        the physical address of the service provider,
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        the message types exchanged, and
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        the data types exchanged with those messages.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
                The binding technology used is usually the <emphasis>Simple Object Access Protocol</emphasis>,
                SOAP.
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>WS-addressing</title>
        <para>
            WS-Addressing allows web services to communicate addressing information independent of the transport
            mechanism used. It effectively provides a the ability to pass web service references across technologies.
        </para>
        <para>
            It essentially consists of two parts:
            <orderedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    a structure for communicating a reference to a Web service endpoint, and        
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    a set of Message Addressing Properties which associate addressing information with a particular message.        
                </para></listitem>
            </orderedlist>
        </para>
        <para>
            An end-point reference is a simple, technology neutral reference to a service location, similar to a CORBA
            stringified reference.
        </para>
        <para>
            When providing addressing information to a web service endpoint, one provides the following information
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    Message destination URI     
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    an endpoint reference for
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            the source endpoint -- the endpoint of the service that dispatched this message.   
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            reply endpoint -- the endpoint to which reply messages should be dispatched.     
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            fault endpoint -- the endpoint to which fault messages should be dispatched.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>    
                </para></listitem>    
                <listitem><para>
                    a URI for the action, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> 
                    an action value indicating the semantics of the message.     
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                   a URI for the unique message ID     
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Relationship to the previous message as a pair of URIs, one for the previous message and one for
                    the semantic relationship.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Standards for data structure specification</title>
        <para>
            Business analysts would typically specify data structure requirements for exchanged value objects 
            using UML class diagrams. These data structure specifications would be mapped onto either
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>XML schemas,</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>RDF or OWL schemas, or</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>Relax NG schemas.</para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            XML schemas provide a rich vocabulary for specifying rigid static structures. RDF and OWL schemas
            provide a more flexible approach using semantic relationships between data elements. Relax NG
            is only used infrequently.
        </para>
        <para>
            The data itself would typically be encoded in XML.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Standards for data transformation</title>
        <para>
            XSLT provides a convenient and powerful language for specifying data transformations which are
            applied to XML based data. Alternatively one can use a programming language like
            Java, Ruby or C# to define data transformations.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Standards for coordination</title>
        <para>
            Business analysts typically specify coordinations using a diagrammatic language like UML 
            (particularly UML sequence and activity diagrams) or BPMN. At the SOA level there are also
            a range of standards used to specify such coordinations. These more technical specifications
            would typically be generated using a suitable mapping tool.
        </para>
        <para>
            When a collection of services interact to realize a higher level business process, it is usually
            necessary for the services to share a common context. The standards to address these issues
            are 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>WS-Coordination</title>
                    <para>
                        <emphasis>WS-Coordination</emphasis> defines an extensible framework for defining
                        coordination types for coordinations across heterogeneous services. 
                        It contains the definition of a common context for a specific coordination
                        which may span part of or an entire business process.
                    </para>                    
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    <emphasis>WS-AtomicTransaction</emphasis> targets short-running coordinations for which
                    it is feasible to lock resources. It is used to encapsulate atomic processes and supports
                    the two-phase commit protocol for distributed transactions.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    <emphasis>WS-BusinessActivity</emphasis> targets long-running coordinations which may contain
                    atomic coordinations. It includes concepts for handling faults via compensating activities.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    <emphasis>WS-BPEL</emphasis> is perhaps the most widely used language to define business
                    processes. BPEL facilitates the specification of both
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            abstract business processes specifying the mutually visible message exchanges for
                            each of the parties participating in the coordination without
                            specifying the internal behaviour, and
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            executable business processes with specified behaviour for each participant which can be compiled
                            into executable scripts.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                    WS-BPEL is a large specification which covers
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            sequencing of business process activities including sequential and concurrent flows of activities,
                            decision and synchronization points in a business process and so on.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            correlation of messages and process instances, and
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            recovery behaviour in the case of exceptions and errors.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                    However, even executable business process specifications in BPEL-WS contain no binding information
                    -- these are contained in the WSDL files. This makes BPEL business process specifications more portable
                    and reusable.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The <emphasis>WS Choreography Definition Language</emphasis> (WS-CDL) is an 
                    XML-based language that describes peer-to-peer collaborations of Web Services participants 
                    by defining their common and complementary observable behavior. It provides a more flexible 
                    approach where service providers can decide themselves which roles they would like to play
                    within a business process by adhering to a specified  
                    ordered message exchange which lead to acommplishing a specific business goal. 
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Policies</title>
        <para>
            WS-Policy defines a simple framework for associating meta-data to services. It is used to, for example,
            associate security requirements or reliability requirements to a service. 
        </para>
        <para>
            WS-Policy provides the infrastructure to associate a service with a policy. The different types of policies are defined
            through different specifications.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Standards for Security</title>
        <para>
            The <emphasis>Web Services Security Framework</emphasis> provides support for identification,
            authentication, authorization, confidentiality and integrity. The relevant standards are
            <table>
                <title>Web Services Security Standards</title>
                <tgroup cols="2">
                    <thead>
                        <row>
                            <entry><para>Security domain</para></entry>
                            <entry><para>Applicable standard</para></entry>
                        </row>
                    </thead>
                    <tbody>
                        <row>
                            <entry><para>Authentification</para></entry>
                            <entry><para>Extensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML)</para></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><para>Authorization</para></entry>
                            <entry><para>Extensible Rights Markup Language (XrML),
                                XML Key Management (XKMS),
                                Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)</para></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><para>Confidentiality</para></entry>
                            <entry><para>
                                XML-Encryption,
                                Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
                            </para></entry>
                        </row>
                        <row>
                            <entry><para>Inegrity</para></entry>
                            <entry><para>
                                XML-Digital Signatures
                            </para></entry>
                        </row>
                    </tbody>
                </tgroup>
            </table>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Standards for messaging</title>
        <para>
            The <emphasis>WS-ReliableMessaging</emphasis> specification enables one to specify
            the required delivery behaviour. It supports
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>at least once,</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>at most once, and</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>in order delivery.</para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    