<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-06-02 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Normative elements of an IEEE 1471 compliant architecture description</title>
    <para>
        The core element of the IEEE 1471 specification is a framework for an architectural description. It specifies
        a high-level structure for the document as well as a list of required elements. 
    </para>
    <para>
        In order for an architectural description to conform to the standard, the standard requires that the following must be included
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                Contextual information like the issuing and client organizations, date, revision history, reader guidelines, ...
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                An identification of all stake holders who have an interest in the architecture.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                For each stake holder, their architectural requirements/concerns.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Models of the system architecture organized in views with each view being a view generated for 
                and compliant to a particular view point.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The view point details explaining the artifacts of the views corresponding to the view point.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The rationale used to select the described architecture and evidence that significant alternatives were considered.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                An exposition which demonstrates that each architectural concern/requirement is addressed by at least one view.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                A list of all known inconsistencies among views, identified using explicit consistency and completeness criteria to check
                within and between views.
            </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
        
        <note>
            <para>
                IEEE 1471 does not impose low level structure and elements for the architectural description. These details are left to
                the formal specifications of the view points themselves. The choice of view points is also not prescribed by the standard.
            </para>
        </note>
            
    </para>
</section>    