<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Performance</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>performance</primary></indexterm>
        Performance refers to a measure of the time required to realize the services deployed within an infrastructure.
        Within a building this may include, for example,  
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the time required to transport people or goods from one part of the building to another, or         
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                elements of the infrastructure which enable one to send messages from one part of the
                building to another.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Applicability of performance requirements</title>    
        <para>
            Performance attributes are often important for organizational and systems architectures.
            In either of these one often requires an architecture which enables one to achieve a high
            level of performance in business or system processes.
        </para>
        <para>
            For example, it may be important for an airport that users can get within some specified
            time period from the international to the domestic terminal or vice versa. Similarly it
            may be important for the architecture of an organization that the services deployed within
            the organization can be realized with a high level of performance. This may result in
            a high level of automation and perhaps the use of a pipes and filters based organizational
            architecture. 
        </para>
        <para>
            To take another example, 
            stringent performance requirements for a architecture for the data acquisition, processing and
            control systems for a jet may result in an architecture providing efficient resource pooling,
            optimized integration channels, optimized integration protocols etc.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Quantifying performance requirements</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>performance</primary><secondary>quantifying</secondary></indexterm>
            Performance requirements are often provided by
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    specifying performance constraints for representative service to be deployed within the architecture,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    specifying performance constraints on certain architectural elements directly, and by
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    specifying certain architectural strategies which should be employed to realize performance.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
</section>            