<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    xml:id="components.technologies.www.http.response.2xxSuccessful.2xxSuccessful">
        <title>Successful - 2xx</title>
        <para>
              This class of status code indicates that the client's request was successfully 
              received, understood, and accepted.
        </para>
        <para>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>200 OK</title>
                        <para>
                            The request was successful. The entity information contained in the
                            message body is dependent on the type of request.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>201 Created</title>
                        <para>
                             The request has been fulfilled and resulted in a new resource being created. 
                             The newly created resource can be referenced by the URI(s) returned in the 
                             entity of the response, with the most specific URI for the resource given 
                             by a Location header field.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>202 Accepted</title>
                        <para>
                             The request has been accepted for processing, but the processing has not been completed. 
                             The request might or might not eventually be acted upon, as it might be disallowed when 
                             processing actually takes place. There is no facility for re-sending a status code from 
                             an asynchronous operation such as this.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>203 Non-Authoritative Information</title>
                        <para>
                             The returned metainformation in the entity-header is not the definitive set as available 
                             from the origin server, but is gathered from a local or a third-party copy.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>204 No Content</title>
                        <para>
                             The server has fulfilled the request but does not need to return an entity-body, and might 
                             want to return updated metainformation. If the client is a web browser, the current view is
                             thus not replaced by new information from the server.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>205 Reset Content</title>
                        <para>
                             The server has fulfilled the request and the user agent should reset the document view which 
                             caused the request to be sent. This response is primarily intended to allow input for actions 
                             to take place via user input, followed by a clearing of the form in which the input is given 
                             so that the user can easily initiate another input action.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>206 Partial Content</title>
                        <para>
                             The server has fulfilled the partial GET request for the resource. The request must have 
                             included a Range header field indicating the desired range, and may have 
                             included an If-Range header field to make the request conditional.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>            
        </para>
</section>
