<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>ACID criteria</title>

    <para>
        The ACID properties are meant to provide a guarantee that the transaction leaves all resources
        used by the transaction in a consistent state, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> that the transaction does
        not put the system or service provider into an invalid state.
    </para>
    <para>
        The properties stand for <emphasis>atomicity</emphasis>, <emphasis>consistency</emphasis>,
        <emphasis>isolation</emphasis> and <emphasis>durability</emphasis>.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Atomicity</title>
        <para>
            Atomicity ensures that the work flow step for the transaction is either 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    completed in its entirety leaving
                    the resources/entities in a state where the post-conditions for the transaction are satisfied, or
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    that the nothing is done at all, leaving all resources in their original state, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>
                    the state they were in prior to the transaction having started.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Consistency</title>
        <para>
            Consistency refers to the resources being in a valid (consistent) state, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>  in a state where
            all the invariance constraints for the resources are met.
        </para>
        <para>
            These invariance constraints refer to the integrity rules for the resources maintained by a service provider. 
            If all invariance constraints are met then the service provider (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> system) as a whole is
            in a consistent or valid state. 
            The service provider or system is in
            a consistent or non-compromised state if all integrity rules or business rules are met. 
            <note><para>
                Invariance constraints (<abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> integrity or business rules) are
                often formulated in the form of symmetry rules.	
            </para></note>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Isolation</title>
        <para>
            Isolation refers to the ability of a service provider to make operations in a transaction appear isolated from 
            all other operations. This means that no operation outside the transaction can ever see an intermediate state of a
            resource affected by the transaction. 
        </para>
        <para>
            More formally, isolation means the transaction history (or schedule) is serializable. That is, the history of transactions
            appears to have been executed one after another, even though they may have been executed concurrently. The end result
            is indistinguishable from an execution where the transactions were truly executed sequentially.
            <note><para>
                In the context of optimizing for performance, it is often the insolation property of a transaction which is
                relaxed.
            </para></note>			
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Durability</title>
        <para>
            Durability ensures that the effects of a transaction persist and cannot be lost or undone at a later stage. If a 
            service provider or partner partaking in a transaction acknowledges a commit, it must be able to guarantee that
            the effects of the transaction will be durable.
            <note><para>
                The effects of a transaction can be effectively undone by executing an inverse transaction. This does not, however,
                affect the durability of the first transaction.
            </para></note>
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    