<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-1-15 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Reusability and reuse</title>
    <para>
        Reusability is a measure of the proportion of elements in a design which can be reused and the inverse of the
        cost associated with the reuse of design elements. This is likely to differ from the actual level of reuse obtained.
    </para>
    <para>
        In general we want to reuse
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                services,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                value objects,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                services contracts, and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                service providers who realize these services contracts.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Measuring reusability</title>
        <para>
            
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Measuring the level of reuse</title>
        <para>            
            The achieved level of reuse can be measured empirically by measuring the average number of usages per model element
            
            classes and/or  service, or by measuring
            the proportion of model elements . We find the former method more useful, measuring the reuse ratio of services and that of domain and value objects.
        </para>
        <para>
            In order to measure the reusability, we assess whether the design has the aspects which are required for reusability. In particular,
            we count in the design
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the number of services which do not implement services contracts,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the number of service requests which lock into a particular service provider and not into a services contract,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the number of incomplete services contracts, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> the number of services contracts for which
                    one or more of the following have not been defined
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            the services which service providers realizing the services contract need to provide,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            the data structures for the inputs and outputs,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            the pre- and post-conditions,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            the quality requirements.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the number of services for which the process has not been localized in a separate controller (putting logic of the
                    workflow within which a service is used into the service itself impacts negatively on the reusability of the service),                    
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the number of objects with low cohesion,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the number of services contracts and service providers which span responsibility domains (i.e. for which the single responsibility
                    principle has not been enforced) (this overlaps with the previous point of low cohesion).
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Measuring reuse</title>
        <para>
            The actual level if reuse can be measured directly from the object model by looking at each service, services contract, value object and each
            class with business logic and looking at the number of processes within which they are used.
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    