<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns6669:section xmlns:ns6669="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.innerClasses.definingInnerClasses">
  <ns6670:title xmlns:ns6670="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Defining and using inner classes</ns6670:title>
  <ns6671:para xmlns:ns6671="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    To define an inner class, you simply put the class declaration within the body of another class.
    <ns6672:programlisting xmlns:ns6672="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
class A
{
      
 
  class B
  {
      
   }   
}      
      </ns6672:programlisting>
  </ns6671:para>
  <ns6673:section xmlns:ns6673="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns6674:title xmlns:ns6674="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Life span of inner classes</ns6674:title>
    <ns6675:para xmlns:ns6675="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Note that B is not declared a static (class) member of the outer class, but as an instance
      member instead. Consequently, every instance of B <ns6676:emphasis xmlns:ns6676="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">can only be created and can only exist
        within an instance of A</ns6676:emphasis>. Once the enclosing instance of A is deleted, the
      instances of B created within that instance of A will also be deleted
      <ns6677:note xmlns:ns6677="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns6678:para xmlns:ns6678="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        While some code maintains an external reference to an instance of B, neither that instance of
        B nor the enclosing instance of A will be deleted, as the inner class instance member
        maintains a reference to the outer class instance.
      </ns6678:para></ns6677:note>
    </ns6675:para>
  </ns6673:section>
  
  <ns6679:section xmlns:ns6679="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns6680:title xmlns:ns6680="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Inner class instance has access to private members of its outer class instance</ns6680:title>
    <ns6681:para xmlns:ns6681="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      An inner class instance can directly access the private members of the outer class instance within
      which it exists. For example
      <ns6682:programlisting xmlns:ns6682="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
class MonteCarloIntegrator
{
       
   public double integrate(...)
   {
      for (int i=0; i&lt;numThreads; ++i)
        new MonteCarloThread().run();
   }
        
   private class MonteCarloThread extends Thread
   {
      public void run()
      {
        // Here we can directly access the private parameters
        // and the private services of
        // the MonteCarloIntegrator class.
        ...
      }  
   }     
     
   private void somePrivateService() {...}     
        
   private double parameter1, parameter2;
        
   private static final int numThreads = 10;
 }
        </ns6682:programlisting>
    </ns6681:para>
  </ns6679:section>
  
  <ns6683:section xmlns:ns6683="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns6684:title xmlns:ns6684="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Accessibility of inner classes</ns6684:title>
    <ns6685:para xmlns:ns6685="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Inner classes can be declared with any access level, <ns6686:abbrev xmlns:ns6686="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns6686:abbrev> they can be
      declared <ns6687:literal xmlns:ns6687="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">public</ns6687:literal>, <ns6688:literal xmlns:ns6688="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">protected</ns6688:literal>, friendly or package scope,
      and <ns6689:literal xmlns:ns6689="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">private</ns6689:literal>.
    </ns6685:para>
    <ns6690:para xmlns:ns6690="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Core drivers for using inner classes are scoping and encapsulation. For this reason one should
      generally declare inner classes with private scope.
    </ns6690:para>
  </ns6683:section>
  
  
  <ns6691:section xmlns:ns6691="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns6692:title xmlns:ns6692="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Local classes</ns6692:title>
    <ns6693:para xmlns:ns6693="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      A local class is a class which is defined within a block of code (for example within the body
      of a method). This construct further reduces the scope of the class (the area where the class
      can be directly accessed to not only within another class, but to within a particular block of
      code.
    </ns6693:para>
    <ns6694:para xmlns:ns6694="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      For example, 
      <ns6695:programlisting xmlns:ns6695="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
class A
{
  public void f()
  {
     new Thread()
     {
        public void run()
        {
          // here the processing steps 
          // to be performed in that thread.
          ...
        }
     }.start();   
  }
}        
        </ns6695:programlisting>
    </ns6694:para>
  </ns6691:section>
  
  
  <ns6696:section xmlns:ns6696="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns6697:title xmlns:ns6697="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Anonymous inner classes</ns6697:title>
    <ns6698:para xmlns:ns6698="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Anonymous classes are unnamed inner classes. The only point where the class itself is
      referenced is upon instance creation. Usually all further interaction with that instance is
      via some interface. Effectively this reduces the scope and accessibility of the inner class
      even further.
    </ns6698:para>
    
    <ns6699:para xmlns:ns6699="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      They are, however, quite commonly used for event adapters. For example
      <ns6700:programlisting xmlns:ns6700="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
import java.awt.*;
import java.awt.event.*;

public class MyFrame extends Frame
{
  public MyFrame()
  {
    addWindowListener (new WindowAdapter()
                       {
                         public void windowClosing (WindowEvent event)
                           {System.exit(0);}
                       });
  }
}
</ns6700:programlisting>
    </ns6699:para>
    <ns6701:para xmlns:ns6701="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The above defines an anonymous subclass of <ns6702:emphasis xmlns:ns6702="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">WindowAdapter</ns6702:emphasis> which overrides the
      <ns6703:emphasis xmlns:ns6703="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">windowClosing()</ns6703:emphasis> event handler method. The above code is essentially
      equivalent to the following, more conventional code:
      <ns6704:programlisting xmlns:ns6704="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
import java.awt.*;
import java.awt.event.*;

public class MyFrame extends Frame
{
  public MyFrame()
  {
    class MyWindowAdapter extends WindowAdapter
    {
      public void windowClosing (WindowEvent event)
      {System.exit(0);}
    }

    addWindowListener (new MyWindowAdapter());
  }
}
</ns6704:programlisting>
    </ns6701:para>    
  </ns6696:section>
  
  <ns6705:section xmlns:ns6705="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns6706:title xmlns:ns6706="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Accessing the outer class instance</ns6706:title>
    <ns6707:para xmlns:ns6707="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
       At times the inner class instance will need to request services from its outer class
       instance. In order to achieve this you could provide the inner class instance a handle to the
      outer class instance as a constructor argument. This will, however, not work for anonymous
      inner classes (as these can only be constructed via a default constructor) and is
      unnecessarily messy too.
    </ns6707:para>
    <ns6708:para xmlns:ns6708="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      In Java the inner class instance can access its outer clas instance directly by using
      <ns6709:literal xmlns:ns6709="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">OuterClass.this</ns6709:literal>. For example
      <ns6710:programlisting xmlns:ns6710="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
class A
{
    public void f()
    {
        new Thread()
        {
            public void run()
            {
                x.doSomething(A.this);
            }
        }
    }
}        
        </ns6710:programlisting>
      In the above code the anonymous inner thread class calls the <ns6711:literal xmlns:ns6711="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">doSomething</ns6711:literal>
      method passing a handle to its outer class instance.
    </ns6708:para>
  </ns6705:section>
  
  
</ns6669:section>