<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--DOCTYPE section SYSTEM "file:/opt/share/xml/Oxygen/samples/docbook/xml/docbookx.dtd"--><ns763:section xmlns:ns763="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2me.xml.XMLUses">

    <ns764:title xmlns:ns764="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Uses of XML</ns764:title>
    <ns765:para xmlns:ns765="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> XML is a format for self-describing data and its uses revolve naturally around the
        definition, processing and communication of self-describing data.</ns765:para>
    <ns766:para xmlns:ns766="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> A very wide spectrum of domain-specific vocabularies have been and will be developed.
        These cover the exchange of scientific, legal and business information through to software
        setup information and the service request information in the case of distributed software systems.</ns766:para>
    <ns767:para xmlns:ns767="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> In this section will shall look at a few example applications of XML.</ns767:para>
    <ns768:section xmlns:ns768="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns769:title xmlns:ns769="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Scientific Applications</ns769:title>
        <ns770:para xmlns:ns770="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> One of the most widely used scientific applications is <ns771:emphasis xmlns:ns771="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> MathML</ns771:emphasis>.
            MathML provides a standard way to define and exchange mathematical expressions. Browsers
            and publication software packages can be used to set these mathematical expressions into
            visual form and different applications can exchange mathematical expressions via MathML.</ns770:para>
        <ns772:para xmlns:ns772="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Standards for medical, biological and chemical information have also been defined in XML.</ns772:para>
    </ns768:section>
    <ns773:section xmlns:ns773="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns774:title xmlns:ns774="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">e-Business Data Exchange</ns774:title>
        <ns775:para xmlns:ns775="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Standards for electronic exchange of business data have been around for some time.
            The most notable ones are <ns776:emphasis xmlns:ns776="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Electronic Data Interchange</ns776:emphasis> (EDI) which
            is used mainly in the USA and the <ns777:emphasis xmlns:ns777="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> United Nations/Electronic Data Exchange for
                Administration, Commerce and Transport</ns777:emphasis> (UN/EDIFACT).</ns775:para>
        <ns778:para xmlns:ns778="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> A range of XML-based standard for e-business data exchange have been developed
            recently. The <ns779:emphasis xmlns:ns779="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Open Buying on the Internet Consortium</ns779:emphasis> (OBI) is
            working on such a standard. Furthermore, CommerceOne has released the<ns780:emphasis xmlns:ns780="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Common
                Business Library</ns780:emphasis> (CBL) and Microsoft has released<ns781:emphasis xmlns:ns781="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> CommerceXML}
                (cXML) and </ns781:emphasis> BizTalk}.</ns778:para>
        <ns782:para xmlns:ns782="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Another interesting organization developing XML-based standards for
            business-to-business data exchange is RosettaNet. It focuses on information exchange
            between businesses participating in a supply chain scenario.</ns782:para>
        <ns783:para xmlns:ns783="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Finally, <ns784:emphasis xmlns:ns784="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Interactive Financial Exchange</ns784:emphasis> (IFE) has been
            developed for the exchange of financial data.</ns783:para>
    </ns773:section>
    <ns785:section xmlns:ns785="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns786:title xmlns:ns786="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">System Configuration</ns786:title>
        <ns787:para xmlns:ns787="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Many software systems can retrieve their configuration information from XML
            documents. For example, J2EE Application servers typically obtain their configuration
            information from XML documents. Individual Enterprise Java Beans (entity and session
            beans) obtain their deployment information from deployment descriptor files which are
            XML files.</ns787:para>
    </ns785:section>
    <ns788:section xmlns:ns788="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns789:title xmlns:ns789="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Document Definition via DocBook</ns789:title>
        <ns790:para xmlns:ns790="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> DocBook is an XML-vocabulary for general presentation-independent documentation
            definition. The idea is that you define the content of the document independent from the
            presentation. In many ways this is similar to the ideas behind LaTeX, the standard tool
            used to produce scientific and particularly mathematical documents.</ns790:para>
        <ns791:para xmlns:ns791="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> The final document can then be rendered into various publication formats like HTML,
            PDF or Postscript.</ns791:para>
    </ns788:section>
    <ns792:section xmlns:ns792="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns793:title xmlns:ns793="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The XML Query Language (XQL)</ns793:title>
        <ns794:para xmlns:ns794="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> The XML Query Language is defined as a general query language for any XML data
            sources. It can be used to query XML documents, data bases or object repositories
            without being tightly coupled to the type of data source.</ns794:para>
    </ns792:section>
    <ns795:section xmlns:ns795="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns796:title xmlns:ns796="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Graphics Definition</ns796:title>
        <ns797:para xmlns:ns797="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> The <ns798:emphasis xmlns:ns798="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Scalar Vector Graphics</ns798:emphasis> language (SVG) is an XML-based
            vocabulary used to define and exchange any type of graphics object.</ns797:para>
    </ns795:section>
    <ns799:section xmlns:ns799="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns800:title xmlns:ns800="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">IT-Related XML Vocabularies</ns800:title>
        <ns801:para xmlns:ns801="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Of course, XML is also useful for data definition and exchange for the IT industry
            itself. It is used, among others, for transmitting service requests between systems,
            supplying configuration and environmental information to systems and describing web site structures.</ns801:para>
    </ns799:section>
    <ns802:section xmlns:ns802="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns803:title xmlns:ns803="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The Simple Object Access protocol (SOAP)</ns803:title>
        <ns804:para xmlns:ns804="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> SOAP, like CORBA's Internet Inter-ORB Protocol (IIOP), is developed for sending
            remote service requests to objects. It was developed by Microsoft. While IIOP is a
            binary protocol put on top of TCP/IP, SOAP is a text-based protocol defined i within
            XML/HTTP. As such it avoids many of the firewall tunneling difficulties often
            encountered in CORBA systems. Furthermore, being based on XML it has the advantage that
            the information supplied with the service request is self-describing and that it does
            not rely on any support from an Object-Request Broker (ORB).</ns804:para>
    </ns802:section>
    <ns805:section xmlns:ns805="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns806:title xmlns:ns806="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The Channel Definition Format (CDF)</ns806:title>
        <ns807:para xmlns:ns807="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> This format which was proposed by Microsoft enable Web sites to feed information
            updates through channels. Anybody who is interested in obtaining the latest information
            from certain web sites can subscribe to such channels. Although CDF did comply to
            earlier XML standards it unfortunately does not fully comply to the latest XML standards.</ns807:para>
    </ns805:section>
    <ns808:section xmlns:ns808="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns809:title xmlns:ns809="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Structured Graph Format (SGF)</ns809:title>
        <ns810:para xmlns:ns810="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> SGF can be used to describe the structure of web sites. It is based on structure
            graphs which are a product of formal Mathematics.</ns810:para>
    </ns808:section>
</ns763:section>