<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->

<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    
    <title>Quality requirements around the integration</title>
    <para>
        Here the standard quality requirements need to be identified and quantified. Quality requirements
        which are particularly relevant for integration include
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Accessibility</title>
                    <para>
                        The access channel to be made available by the integration solution.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Scalability</title>
                <para>
                    The load/volumes and change in these which the integration solution will have to be able
                    to handle,
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Performance</title>
                <para>
                    The period within which messages can be delivered through the integration solution.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Reliability</title>
                <para>
                    The bounds on the failure rate around delivering messages.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Security</title>
                <para>
                    The ease with which un-authorized accces can be obtained through the integration solution
                    potentially quantified via lower bounds on the cost incurred for un-authorized access.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Auditability</title>
                <para>
                    The requirement to be able to audit the objects exchanged through the integration solution.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Flexibility</title>
                    <para>
                        The ease with which aspects of the integration can be modified potentially quantified as
                        upper bounds and/or estimates on the cost incurred in changing aspects of the 
                        integration.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Usability</title>
                <para>
                    The ease with which the integration solution can be used potentially quantified as
                    lower bounds or average cost incurred when using the integration solution.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Cost</title>
                <para>
                    Bounds on the cost incurred by putting the integration solution itself in place.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    