<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Portage Front-Ends</title>
    <para>
        Even though the <literal>emerge</literal> command line tool is really very nice to use, some people still prefer
        at times a GUI front-end. Some of the derived distributions like Sabayon Linux automatically ship with GUI front-ends
        to Portage.        
    </para>
    <para>
        As with most things in Linux, there are several options:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Porthole</title>
                <para>
                    This is perhaps the most widely used portage front-end for Portage. Not particularly pretty user interface but functional and
                    can help beginners. It is written in  GTK+, a platform independent GUI library written in C.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Kuroo</title>
                <para>
                    This is perhaps the nicest Portage front-end. It's used in Sabayon Linux and provides user-friendly browsing through
                    the portage tree, nice dependency querying, installation thread monitoring, version tracking, basic configuration
                    management and log history inspection.
                    Kuroo has been been develop in Qt - another platform independent user interface library written in C++.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>portageMaster</title>
                <para>
                    A simple no-frills Java based front-end which delegates tasks to the background - not in portage.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Portato</title>
                <para>
                    A GTK+ based front-end written in Python.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title></title>
                <para></para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title></title>
                <para></para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        
    </para>
</section>    