<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.introduction.xmlTools.editors"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Editors</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>XML</primary>
    <secondary>editors</secondary>
  </indexterm>
    <para> You can use any text editor to write XML documents. If you write a lot of XML, however,
        this will become quite tedious, as XML editors typically provide the following assistance: <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>Multiple views onto the XML document: <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>Normal text views. </para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>Tree and/or table and/or nested box views. </para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>Presentation views (e.g. browser views). </para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>DTD and Schema views.</para>
                        </listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> Easy element selection with automatic provision of end-tags
                    (Auto-completion). </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> Parsing and syntax verification. </para>
            </listitem>
          <listitem>
            <para>Advanced assistance in writing XSLT transformations,
              including debuggers with breakpoints and stepping, etc.</para>
          </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
      Free XML editors can be obtained from IBM, Microsoft and other
      sources. The Eclipse IDE platform, when fitted with the WTP (Web
      Tools Project) suite of plug-ins, also supplies a high-quality,
      open-source XML editor.
    </para>
    <para> Examples of commercial XML editors (which, unfortunately, still
      outclass the free editors at the time of writing) are: oXygen XML (www.oxygenxml.com), XML Pro
        (www.vervet.com), XML Authority (www.extensibility.com), XMetaL (www.xmetal.com), Clip! XML
        Editor (www.t2000-usa.com) and XMLSpy (www.altova.com). </para>
</section>