<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-20 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Construction</title>


    <para> The construction phase is a manufacturing phase in which the product is designed and
        implemented. The emphasis is on managing resources and controlling operations to optimize
        cost and quality. </para>
    <para> The construction phase is broken down into several iterations focusing initially on
        determining the core architecture and then on designing and developing the components
        delivering the various use cases iteratively. </para>
    <para> Separate modules are often developed by separate development teams. The work flows of
        these teams have to be coordinated and synchronized. </para>
    <para> Each component should be documented and tested before it is signed off. A testing
        framework can be used to integrate the tests for the individual components. </para>

    <section>
        <title>Deliverables of the construction phase</title>
        <para> The deliverables of the construction phase include <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> The <emphasis>software product</emphasis>. It should be demonstrated that
                        the product is stable and mature enough to be deployed on the client site.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A <emphasis>testing framework</emphasis> for the product. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> The <emphasis>user manual</emphasis>. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A <emphasis>description of the current release</emphasis>. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Evaluation criteria for the construction phase</title>
        <para> The evaluation for the construction phase are <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Is the product release stable and mature enough for deployment? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Are all stake holders ready for project transition into the user
                        community. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Are the actual expenditures versus the planned expenditures still
                        acceptable?</para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>


</section>
