<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <title>Industry buy-in</title>
  <para>
    Java has become the most widely used programming language in for many application areas ranging
    from
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem><para>
        card development to  
      </para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>
        mobile devices applications  to 
      </para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>
        desktop applications to  
      </para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>
        enterprise applications. 
      </para></listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>Open source projects</title>
    <para>
      Even though C and C++ have a long history of open source projects,
      as of 2006, <uri>http://sourceforge.net</uri> hosts more 
      open source projects in Java than in any other programming language.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  
  <section>
    <title>Job surveys</title>
    <para>
      When considering job-listing publications, one typically finds that there are more positions available
      requiring knowledge of Java, than for any other language. The latest statistics from
      <literal>monstor.com</literal> show that there are about 
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>
          30% more jobs requesting Java skills than what there are
          for C/C++ skills, 
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          About 2.5 times more Java positions than Visual Basic positions,           
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          About 3 times more Java positions than C# positions.
        </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      <emphasis>(The above are rough averages for jobs available globally.)</emphasis>
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Java investment</title>
    <para>
      The <emphasis>Financial Express</emphasis> did a study in April 2005 which quoted the following investment
      statistics in the Java technologies:
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>
          Java is currently driving more than $100 billion of business annually.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          Java mobile game market is estimated to be around $3 billion.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          Seven out of 10 wireless applications currently under constructions will use Java technology.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          On the enterprise side, $2.2 billion in Java application server and $110 billion in related IT spendings are happening.  
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          Java has a global development community of over 4.5 million software developers.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          Along with that, 100 carrier deployments and 579 million phones are on this platform.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          Around 750 million Java cards have been deployed globally.
        </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
  </section>
  
</section>  