<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Weaknesses of hierarchical patterns</title>
    <para>
        However, many organizations have started to break down their hierarchical structures. They find that
        the reduced communication channels becomes more of a liability than an asset.
        Disadvantages of hierarchical structures include the following:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                Hierarchical organizations tend to be very rigid, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> modifying business 
                processes or introducing new business processes can be quite costly, particularly if 
                responsibility allocations need to be changed.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Deep hierarchies discourage ingenuity and personal development.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The rigid demarcation of areas of responsibility discourages taking initiatives which
                fall outside the allocated area of responsibility.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Transition to higher levels within the hierarchy need to be managed carefully. Otherwise
                it may easily happen that individuals are promoted while they are performing well and are
                no longer promoted once they do not perform anymore. The result  of this would be that
                each person is promoted to their level of incompetence.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                It is difficult to support a paradigm where individuals define and evolve their own role
                within the organization. This is partially due to the partitioning into separate areas of 
                responsibility and partially due to the restricted communication across accountability
                layers.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The horizontal domain partitioning can easily result in stove-pipes where communication
                across business units deteriorates over time. This typically results in work flow and responsibility
                duplication across the organization. Furthermore, evolving the business and changing
                business processes in a way which remains aligned to the organization's mission, realizing
                the organization's capabilities, becomes difficult.
                <note><para>
                    Stove pipes are also often directly created by mergers.
                </para></note>
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>

