<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Merging a branch back into the trunk</title>
    <para>
        To merge a branch back into a trunck you would typically enforce the following steps:
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                Update the branch to the current repository revision (the revision of the head you want to merge into).
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Check the differences applied between the last merged revision and the current revision of the trunk.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                If happy, merge the changes from the last merged to the current trunk revision (the head) into the branch. 
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Resolve any conflicts.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Run tests and fix bugs.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Commit the branch.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Delete trunk.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Move your branch into the trunk.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Switch your working directory to use the trunk.
            </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        Thus, assuming that the last revision merged into the branch was revision 28 and that the head is currently revision 20.
        Then we check the differences applied to the tunck since then using
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn diff -r 28:30 svn://localhost/myProject/trunk
]]></programlisting>
        If happy, we merge those differences into our branch via 
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn merge -r 28:30 ../../trunk
]]></programlisting>
        After resolving any conflicts, running the tests and fixing any bugs, we commit the branch.
    </para>
    <para>
        Now we are ready to fold the branch back into the trunk. This is done by deleting the trunk and moving our branch into the trunk:
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn del ../../trunk -m 'Deleting trunk before folding merged branch back into trunk'

svn mv myBranch ../trunk -m 'Folding merged branch back into trunk'
            ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
    <para>
        Finally we can switch our working copy to refer to the new trunk via
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn switch svn://localhost/myProject/trunk            
        ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
</section>    