<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Service contracts</title>
  
  <indexterm>
    <primary>service contracts (SOA)</primary>
  </indexterm>
  
  <para>
    Each service should realise a well-defined contract. This contract
    should publish
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>the operations (use cases) offered by the service,</para>
        <para>the functional requirements and behaviour of the operations,</para>
        <para>(preferably) the non-functional aspects (the qualities) of
          the service</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    The service contract should be freely accessible by the clients of a
    service, and would typically be published in a naming service or
    registry (in order for clients to discover them).
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>Design-by-contract approach</title>
    <para>
      SOA contracts should follow the standard
      <!-- TODO: Cite design-by-contract --> 
      <emphasis>design-by-contract</emphasis> approach, in
      that the following should be specified for each operation (use-case):
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            the <emphasis>preconditions</emphasis> which must hold in
            order for the operation to be performed. This may make statements
            about the input provided by the client (the request message),
            or about the state of the business. A contract will typically
            define an <emphasis>exception</emphasis> or <emphasis>fault</emphasis>
            message for each precondition, to be raised (and the
            service thus refused) should a precondition not be satisfied.
          </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <para>
            the <emphasis>post-conditions</emphasis> (deliverables) upon
            successful completion of the operation. This may make statements
            about response message(s), or the state of the business after
            completion.
          </para>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
      Service realisations must ensure that the invariants (rules) of the
      system always hold before, during, or after an operation.
    </para>
    <para>
      SOA services should thus intrinsically benefit from the
      design-by-contract approach, such as plug-ability (services
      are de-coupled from one another) and test-ability.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  
  <section>
    <title>Rich, self-describing contracts</title>
    <indexterm>
      <primary>service contracts (SOA)</primary>
    </indexterm>
    <para>
      In an environment such as SOA, which is ultimately meant to enable
      large-scale automation (including the discovery and usage of
      services) it is very important that the contracts contain as much
      meta-information about the service as possible.
    </para>
    
    <section>
      <title>Non-functional (quality) requirements</title>
      <indexterm>
        <primary>service contracts (SOA)</primary>
        <secondary>quality requirements</secondary>
      </indexterm>
      <para>
        The technology used to define contracts in an SOA environment
        should be flexible enough to allow for the specification of the
        non-functional requirements (the quality requirements, such as
        security, reliability, performance) for each use-case.
      </para>
      <para>
        Without this, prospective clients would not be able to use the
        contract as the sole source of information to interacting with a
        service, and further (manual) communication would be required
        between the providers, and consumers, of services.
      </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <!-- TODO: Crap title ? -->
      <title>Technical information</title>
      <indexterm>
        <primary>service contracts (SOA)</primary>
        <secondary>technical information</secondary>
      </indexterm>
      <para>
        In most SOA realisations (e.g. based on web services), the contracts
        published by services include full information regarding
        message exchange patterns, the transport layer (protocol) to be used to
        communicate with the service, as well as the physical location(s) of
        the service.
      </para>
      <para>
        The contract thus contains <emphasis>complete</emphasis> information
        in order to become a client of the service it describes, or to
        develop a new realisation of the service.
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  
</section>    