<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns6329:section xmlns:ns6329="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2se.exceptionHandling.derivingOwnExceptionClasses">
  <ns6330:title xmlns:ns6330="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Deriving your own Exception Classes</ns6330:title>
  <ns6331:para xmlns:ns6331="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    You would have to derive your exception class from one of the existing exception
    classes. To decide which one, try and ask yourself the “is a" question. For
    example, your class might read a setup file. This file should be in a certain format and
    if that format is incorrect, you might want to throw a <ns6332:literal xmlns:ns6332="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">FileFormatException</ns6332:literal>. 
    You would most probably decide to derive
    this exception class from <ns6333:literal xmlns:ns6333="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">IOException</ns6333:literal>.
    <ns6334:programlisting xmlns:ns6334="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
class FileFormatException extends IOException
{
   public FileFormatException() {}
   public FileFormatException(String message) { super(message); }
}
    </ns6334:programlisting>
  </ns6331:para>  
  <ns6335:para xmlns:ns6335="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Note that we supply the two standard constructors supplied with all of Java's exception
    classes. If the exception is thrown but not caught, this message is automatically printed
    when the application aborts. You can access this message via the <ns6336:literal xmlns:ns6336="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">getMessage()</ns6336:literal> 
    method defined in <ns6337:literal xmlns:ns6337="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Throwable</ns6337:literal>.
    <ns6338:programlisting xmlns:ns6338="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 ...
 boolean fileNotOpened = true;
 
 while (fileNotOpened)
 {
   try
   {
     fileNotOpened = false;
     ...
   }
   catch (FileFormatException exception)
   {
     System.out.println("The following exception was thrown: "
                         + exception.toString());
     fileNotFound = true;
   }
 }
 ...
    </ns6338:programlisting>
   </ns6335:para>  
   <ns6339:para xmlns:ns6339="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
     Note that exception classes are just like any other class, just that they are subclasses
     of <ns6340:literal xmlns:ns6340="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Throwable</ns6340:literal>. They can have various constructors and
     various methods. For example, we could include the <ns6341:literal xmlns:ns6341="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">File</ns6341:literal> variable which 
     caused the<ns6342:literal xmlns:ns6342="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">FileFormatException</ns6342:literal> with our exception class:
     <ns6343:programlisting xmlns:ns6343="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
class FileFormatException extends java.io.IOException
{
   public FileFormatException() {}
   public FileFormatException(String message) { super(message); }
   public FileFormatException(String message, File file)
   {
     super(message);
     this.file = file;
   }
 
   public File getFile() {return file;}
 
   private File file;
}
     </ns6343:programlisting>
  </ns6339:para>  
  <ns6344:para xmlns:ns6344="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    On the client side we catch the <ns6345:literal xmlns:ns6345="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">FileFormatException</ns6345:literal>
    object and can send messages (e.g. <ns6346:literal xmlns:ns6346="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">getFile()</ns6346:literal>) to the
    exception just as we would to any other object.
  </ns6344:para>
  <ns6347:para xmlns:ns6347="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Always think how much control you want to give clients for distinguishing
    exceptions. For the above problem it would be better to write the <ns6348:literal xmlns:ns6348="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">FileFormatException</ns6348:literal> 
    to be able to catch all types of file
    format exceptions and then to subclass it with <ns6349:literal xmlns:ns6349="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">MyFileFormatException</ns6349:literal>. 
    This will allow clients to distinguish
    between various types of <ns6350:literal xmlns:ns6350="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">FileFormatException</ns6350:literal>s as well
    as allowing to work with file format exceptions at the more abstract <ns6351:literal xmlns:ns6351="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">FileFormatException</ns6351:literal> 
    level. For example, in the following code
    snippet we treat <ns6352:literal xmlns:ns6352="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">MyFileFormatException</ns6352:literal>s in one
    particular way, all other <ns6353:literal xmlns:ns6353="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">FileFormatExceptions</ns6353:literal> in
    another and all other <ns6354:literal xmlns:ns6354="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">IOException</ns6354:literal>s in a third way.
    <ns6355:programlisting xmlns:ns6355="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
try
{
  ...
}
catch (MyFileFormatException e) { ... }
catch (FileFormatException e)   { ... }
catch (IOException e)           { ... }
    </ns6355:programlisting>
  </ns6347:para>  
</ns6329:section>