<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns6455:section xmlns:ns6455="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2se.exceptionHandling.handlingAtDifferentLevelsOfAbstraction">
  <ns6456:title xmlns:ns6456="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Catching Exceptions at various levels of Abstraction</ns6456:title>
  <ns6457:para xmlns:ns6457="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    A service may throw more than one exception, reflecting the different reasons for the
    service not being able to complete the requested task. For example, a service reading from
    a file may not be able to find the file, or may reach the end of the file prematurely. The
    server method would notify users that it may throw a number of exceptions by listing the
    exceptions it may throw in the <ns6458:literal xmlns:ns6458="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">throws</ns6458:literal> clause with
    commas separating the exceptions.
    <ns6459:programlisting xmlns:ns6459="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
public class TheServerClass
{
   ...
   public void doSomething () throws FileNotFoundException,
                                     EOFException, IndexOutOfBoundsException
   {
     ...
   }
}
    </ns6459:programlisting>
  </ns6457:para>  
  <ns6460:para xmlns:ns6460="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    If the client requesting the <ns6461:literal xmlns:ns6461="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">doSomething()</ns6461:literal> service is
    not able to handle any of the exceptions, the calling method must notify its clients
    that it may throw any of these exceptions. Alternatively the client may handle some or all
    the exceptions potentially thrown. If the client catches various exceptions thrown by the
    same service it concatenates catch clauses:
    <ns6462:programlisting xmlns:ns6462="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
public class TheClientClass
{
  ...
  public void aClientMethod()
  {
    ...
    try
    {
      server.doSomething();
    }
    catch (EOFException e) {}
    catch (IOException e)
    {
      ...
    }
    catch (Exception e)
    {
      e.printStackTrace();
    }
    ...
  }
}
    </ns6462:programlisting> 
    The various exceptions we are willing to catch are specified in a series of catch clauses
    with no other statements between them.
  </ns6460:para>
  <ns6463:para xmlns:ns6463="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    If an <ns6464:literal xmlns:ns6464="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">EOFException</ns6464:literal> is caught, it is ignored
    (there are no statements within the corresponding catch clause) and control is transferred
    to the first statement after the catch clauses. This type of construct is commonly used
    when one wants to read in an entire file. For example
    <ns6465:programlisting xmlns:ns6465="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
StringBuffer fileContent = new StringBuffer();

try
{
  while (true)
    fileContent.append(fin.readLine()).append('/n');
}
catch (EOFException e) {}
    </ns6465:programlisting>    
  </ns6463:para>  
  <ns6466:para xmlns:ns6466="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    But let us return to where we are catching multiple exceptions. For the case where an
    <ns6467:literal xmlns:ns6467="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">IOException</ns6467:literal> is caught, the exception handling code
    within the first catch clause is executed and, upon completion of the statements within
    the catch clause, control is transferred to the first statement after the block of catch
    clauses. Note the different levels of abstraction. We were first specified how a very
    specific exception is handled, the <ns6468:literal xmlns:ns6468="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">EOFException</ns6468:literal>. Then
    we specify that all other <ns6469:literal xmlns:ns6469="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">IOException</ns6469:literal>s (an <ns6470:literal xmlns:ns6470="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">EOFException</ns6470:literal> 
    is an <ns6471:literal xmlns:ns6471="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">IOException</ns6471:literal>) are handled in some other way and finally that
    all other exceptions (those which are not <ns6472:literal xmlns:ns6472="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">IOException</ns6472:literal>s) are simply handled 
    by requesting a printout of
    the stack (calling) trace on the standard error stream -- typically the terminal.
  </ns6466:para>
</ns6455:section>