<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Reducing estimation risk</title>
    
    <para>
        Estimation risk can be reduced by a number of strategies.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Improving the quality of the estimation inputs</title>
        <para>
            Estimates can only be as good as the inputs. Estimates can generally be improved by
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    improving the quality of the requirements,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    providing better information about the resources available for the project, and by
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    deepening one's understanding of the complexities of potential solution elements.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Keep track of historic information</title>
        <para>
            Estimates are often either directly or indirectly based on historic performance. They
            can usually be improved by having more historic information available. This can be
            done by building up a repository of historic information containing for each estimation effort
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the estimation inputs,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the initial estimates,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the estimation updates, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the actual performance.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Validating different estimation approaches against each other</title>
        <para>
            One can use multiple independent estimation approaches 
            (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> and expert judgement based approach like
            the Quantitative Wide Band Delphi method together with a parametric
            approach like the Use Case Points method) in order to assess in how far the
            results agree.
        </para>
        <para>
            In cases where they do not agree, one can analyze the processes and results in order
            to determine the cause of the discrepancy. This understanding can then be used to
            improve the estimates.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Budgeting for contingencies</title>
        <para>
            To reduce the impact of the estimation risk, one typically budgets for contingencies. The amount 
            reserved for contingencies should be directly proportional to the uncertainty in the estimates.
            If the estimation approach used yields probability distributions, then the contingency can be a 
            directly related to the variance of the probability distribution via
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
contingency = contingencyFactor x variance                
]]></programlisting>
            The <literal>contingencyFactor</literal> can be opimized over time.
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    