<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns4266:section xmlns:ns4266="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.qualityAttributes.modifiability.lateBinding">

  <ns4267:title xmlns:ns4267="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Late binding</ns4267:title>
  <ns4268:para xmlns:ns4268="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Thus far the modifiability tactics enable developers to apply system changes more
    cost efficiently. The changes were however applied at compile time. Late binding
    tactic enables one to apply changes at either deploy or run time.
  </ns4268:para>
  
  <ns4269:section xmlns:ns4269="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns4270:title xmlns:ns4270="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Benefits of late binding</ns4270:title>
    <ns4271:para xmlns:ns4271="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Architectures which defer binding decisions to either deploy or run time are
      usually considerably more flexible. They facilitate
      <ns4272:itemizedlist xmlns:ns4272="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns4273:listitem xmlns:ns4273="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4274:para xmlns:ns4274="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          deployers to  deploy customized solutions without requiring developers to make system
          changes,
        </ns4274:para></ns4273:listitem>
        <ns4275:listitem xmlns:ns4275="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4276:para xmlns:ns4276="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          and even clients to modify a system at run-time without bringing the system down.  
        </ns4276:para></ns4275:listitem>
      </ns4272:itemizedlist>
    </ns4271:para>
  </ns4269:section>
  
  <ns4277:section xmlns:ns4277="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns4278:title xmlns:ns4278="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Tactics used to realize late binding</ns4278:title>
    <ns4279:para xmlns:ns4279="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Below we provide a few concrete tactics used to realize late binding strategies.      
    </ns4279:para>
    
    <ns4280:section xmlns:ns4280="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns4281:title xmlns:ns4281="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Runtime registration</ns4281:title>
      <ns4282:para xmlns:ns4282="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        This strategy facilitates registration and loading of new components at run-time. 
        These components should typically realize a <ns4283:emphasis xmlns:ns4283="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">contract</ns4283:emphasis>.
        This can be achieved by registering service providers with 
        <ns4284:itemizedlist xmlns:ns4284="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          <ns4285:listitem xmlns:ns4285="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4286:para xmlns:ns4286="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
           naming and/or trader services,  
          </ns4286:para></ns4285:listitem>
          <ns4287:listitem xmlns:ns4287="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4288:para xmlns:ns4288="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            message queues,  
          </ns4288:para></ns4287:listitem>
          <ns4289:listitem xmlns:ns4289="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4290:para xmlns:ns4290="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            messaging bus,  
          </ns4290:para></ns4289:listitem>
          <ns4291:listitem xmlns:ns4291="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4292:para xmlns:ns4292="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            component containers like EJB containers or servlet/JSP or ASP containers.  
          </ns4292:para></ns4291:listitem>
        </ns4284:itemizedlist>
      </ns4282:para>
    </ns4280:section>
    
    <ns4293:section xmlns:ns4293="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns4294:title xmlns:ns4294="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Customized deployment via configuration files</ns4294:title>
      <ns4295:para xmlns:ns4295="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        This tactic supports the selection of components or entire frameworks (like
        presentation layer frameworks) at deploy-time. It is often used together
        with the <ns4296:emphasis xmlns:ns4296="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">abstract factory</ns4296:emphasis> pattern.
      </ns4295:para>
    </ns4293:section>
    
    <ns4297:section xmlns:ns4297="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns4298:title xmlns:ns4298="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Service provider lookup via naming and trader services</ns4298:title>
      <ns4299:para xmlns:ns4299="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Service providers may register themselves with naming or trader services
        Potential clients look up service providers at run-time, obtaining a message
        path to the service provider (<ns4300:abbrev xmlns:ns4300="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">e.g.</ns4300:abbrev> a CORBA reference or
        a URL to a web service). This message path is then used to issue service 
        requests.
      </ns4299:para>
      <ns4301:para xmlns:ns4301="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Naming services enables potential clients to look up service providers from a name. 
        They are conceptually similar to a normal telephone book containing a 
        name to telephone number (message path) mapping.       
      </ns4301:para>
      <ns4302:para xmlns:ns4302="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Trader services, on the other hand enable clients to look up service providers via
        a hierarchical classification of services, <ns4303:abbrev xmlns:ns4303="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns4303:abbrev> via the service
        they require.
      </ns4302:para>
      <ns4304:para xmlns:ns4304="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Using a naming or trader service facilitates late binding. The concrete service provider
        bound to may be replaced at run-time. In middleware frameworks (<ns4305:abbrev xmlns:ns4305="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">e.g.</ns4305:abbrev>
        CORBA) the reference itself is location transparent and the concrete realization of a service
        provider may be altered significantly (location, implementation technologies like
        programming language, platform, ...).
      </ns4304:para>
    </ns4297:section>
    
  </ns4277:section>
  
</ns4266:section>