<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.qualityAttributes.performance.manageResourceSharing" xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">

  <title>Managing resource sharing</title>
  <para>
     When introducing concurrencies in order to improve performance, one usually ends up
     with a situation where resources need to be shared across these concurrent processes.
     Here we discuss some tactics used to manage resource sharing. 
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>Queuing</title>
    <para>
      One approach is to queue the requests to resources. One can use simple
      FIFO (first-in/first-out) queues or <emphasis>priority queues</emphasis>
      where more threads are allocated to process high-piority requests than
      what are assigned to normal priority requests. 
    </para>
    <para>
      In either case a service request is fully processed once it is extracted from 
      a queue.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Scheduling</title>
    <para>
      Scheduling implies sharing resources among the concurrent processes. Often
      this is in the form of time slicing of processing resources.
    </para>
    <para>
      Each request is assigned a priority which determines
      the service level provided by a resource to that request. The priority may be
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>
          requested by the client,  
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          determined by some <emphasis>domain characteristic</emphasis> like the 
          source of the request
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          determined by the <emphasis>deadline</emphasis> for the response of the 
          request (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev>  timeout messages),
        </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
  </section>
  
</section>