<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.qualityAttributes.performance.manageDemand" xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">

  <title>Managing resource demand</title>
  <para>
    The first way of addressing performance is to reduce the demands made on resources.
    Below we discuss a few tactics which can be deployed to this end.
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>Improve usage efficiency</title>
    <para>
      If one improves the efficiency of resource usage then the system as a whole may
      perform better. This includes
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>
          Improving the efficiency of algorithms so that the demand on processing resources
          is reduced.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          Sending information in a more compact way (for example sending zipped XML
          instead of the raw XML).
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          Reducing the amount of information which is persisted, relieving the demand
          on persistence resources and the communication paths to them.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          Reducing the amount of information held in memory and hence reducing the
          demand on memory swapping.
        </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Manage the rate of events entering the system</title>
    <para>
       At times one can reduce the rate at which events enter the system. For example,
       an over engineered control system may sample the position of the object it controls
       at an unnecessarily high sampling rate. Reducing the sampling rate may relieve
       the processor of some load, enabling the control threads to perform better.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Sample selective events</title>
    <para>
       At times the system itself may choose to process incoming events selectively.
       For example, a portfolio tracking system may receive a high rate of incoming 
       market events, but
       choose to recalculate the portfolio positions (values) only every 10 minutes.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  
</section>