<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         version="5.0"
         xml:id="resources.information.technologies.web.css.attaching.xhtml"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">
    <title>Attaching CSS to (X)HTML</title>
    <para>
        A CSS file is referenced from the (X)HTML document either through a relative or absolute
        URI. The
        <literal>link</literal>
        tag is inserted in the header of the document, indicating
        a style sheet relationship with the specified URI. For example:
        <programlisting language="XML">
            &lt;html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"&gt;
            &lt;head&gt;
            &lt;link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="myStyles.css" /&gt;
            ...
            &lt;/head&gt;
            ...
            &lt;/html&gt;
        </programlisting>

        Multiple style sheets can be attached to a document. In addition, the output media
        for which the stylesheet should be used can be indicated with the optional
        <literal>media</literal>
        attribute, exactly as with the generic
        <literal>xml-stylesheet</literal>
        processing instruction.
    </para>
    <para>
        In addition to attaching external style sheets, style information can be
        directly embedded into the document if so required. This done within the
        <literal>style</literal>
        element in the document<literal>head</literal>:
        <programlisting language="XML">
            &lt;style type="text/css"&gt;
            h1
            {
            color: green;
            background-color: #99FF99;
            font-size: 24pt;
            }
            &lt;/style&gt;
        </programlisting>

        One would generally only embed style information in the document if it is not feasible (or
        practical) to reference an external file, for example an automatically generated e-mailed report.
        In most cases, however, it is beneficial to separate the style information from the XHTML document.
    </para>
    <note>
        <para>
            It is advisable to attach style sheets using this legacy mechanism only if the target browser does
            not support the generic (XML-style) linking mechanism.
        </para>
    </note>
</section>