<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Commercial benefits of contributing to the open-source community</title>
    <para>
        So far we have looked at the benefits of using open source and free software. But are there
        any benefits for an organization to contribute to the open-source community?
    </para>
    <para>
        Assume your organization has developed some software which it uses internally (for their own
        systems or embedded within their own products) which may be generally useful. What benefits 
        could the organization then derive from submitting such code as free software to the 
        open-source community?
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Free maintenance</title>
        <para>
            Assuming the open source community finds the software indeed useful, it will take it up and
            develop it further, hence providing free maintenance for your software components.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>More thorough design and code analysis, testing and bug fixes</title>
        <para>
            Many developers will potentially look at the code, its design, and implementation. From this
            you are likely to get constructive feedback, extensive testing, as well as bug fixes.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Enabling complimentary service providers</title>
        <para>
            Making the source available may enable other service providers (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev>
            consultants) to gain a deeper understanding of your product, and to provide higher
            quality services.It may, in turn, compliment any services which your
            organization may be offering.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>General contribution to efficiency of the economy</title>
        <para>
            If companies provide intellectual assets freely to the economy in general, the economy runs
            more efficiently providing a more fertile environment for good business as a whole. 
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Motivating staff and clients</title>
        <para>
            If your staff feel they are contributing not only to your organization, but to society as a 
            whole, they may be significantly more motivated and enthusiastic. Similarly, your clients
            may also have a more positive and enthusiastic outlook on your organization if they
            realize that it contributes freely to society in general.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    
</section>
