<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <title>Why use the MDA?</title>
  <para>
    There are a number of advantages of formally using MDA:
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem><formalpara>
        <title>Designs are longer-lived</title>
        <para>
          Since the design model is decoupled from any implementation technology,
          it is able to survive technology changes.
        </para>
      </formalpara></listitem>
    <listitem><formalpara>
      <title>Derive code from a stable model</title>
      <para>
        The MDA enables one to derive and potentially automatically generate code from
        a platform-independent model which <emphasis>remains stable as the underlying
          infrastructure evolves over time</emphasis> onto various evolving infrastructure
        technologies.      
      </para>
    </formalpara></listitem>
    <listitem><formalpara>
      <title>Cost-effective porting to other platforms/technologies</title>
      <para>
        Since MDA specifies a mapping process from the PIM to the PSM, a change
        in platform simply requires a change in the mapping layer. <emphasis>If 
          standard mappings are used the system becomes fully portable.</emphasis> 
        The PSM is then generated from the PIM (which remains unchanged) through the new, 
        technology-specific mapping.      
      </para>
    </formalpara></listitem>
    <listitem><formalpara>
      <title>Increased productivity</title>
      <para>
        Only the PIM needs to be maintained. New PSMs within changing technologies and the
        resultant code can be auto-generated. This leads to improved productivity and hence
        to <emphasis>lower cost</emphasis> and <emphasis>reduced time-to-market</emphasis>.
        <note><para>
          In an article, <quote><emphasis>Driving business agility with model driven
            architecture</emphasis></quote>, eds.com claims that using 
          MDA within <emphasis>OptimalJ</emphasis> they reduced the number of lines of
          code for the Java PetStore example by more than a factor 10.
        </para></note>
        </para>
    </formalpara></listitem>
    <listitem><formalpara>
      <title>It is easier to evaluate the choice of implementation technology</title>
      <para>
        The difference between the mappings encapsulates the difference in technology
        choices.       
      </para>
    </formalpara></listitem>
      <listitem><formalpara>
        <title>Improved quality</title>
        <para>
          The quality of the PSM is largely determined by the quality of mapping and not on the
          understanding the individual developers have of the PIM and of the implementation
          technologies. These standard mappings can be expected to perform solid technology
          mappings.          
        </para>
      </formalpara></listitem>
      <listitem><formalpara>
        <title>Simpler and more accessible model</title>
        <para>
          Since the model is devoid of implementation technology concepts it is simpler and more accessible. In particular,
          the PIM documenting an organization's processes is understandable by business people. Furthermore, model transformation
          tools can be used for documentation generation making the PIM accessible to people who do not understand the UML.
        </para>
      </formalpara></listitem>
      <listitem><formalpara>
        <title>Improved quality</title>
        <para>
          The simpler model makes it easier to improve the model quality. Standard proven transformations increase the quality
          of the implementation mapping.
        </para>
      </formalpara></listitem>
      <listitem><formalpara>
        <title>Rapid inclusion of emerging technology benefits</title>
        <para>
          One needs to only define the model transformations for the new technologies, reducing the time required to
          extract value from technology advances.
        </para>
      </formalpara></listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </para>
</section>
