<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><para xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
      version="5.0"
      xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.referenceArchitectures.j2ee.enterpriseBeans.beanSpecies.introParagraph">

  The EJB standard defines 3 types of beans:
  <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
         <formalpara>
            <title>Session Beans</title>
            <para>
        Session beans are components that offer business services to clients. They are the most fundamental (and common)
        type of enterprise bean. They may be 
        <itemizedlist>
                  <listitem>
                     <formalpara>
                        <title>Stateless</title>
                        <para>
              Stateless session beans do not maintain state across service requests. They are usually
              usually used as facades to provide a consistent, client-centric services interface on top of
              a potentially complex application.
            </para>
                     </formalpara>
                  </listitem>
                  <listitem>
                     <formalpara>
                        <title>Stateful</title>
                        <para>
              Stateful session beans maintain state across service requests, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> 
              they <quote>remember</quote> the state of the interaction (or conversation) throughout the client session.
            </para>
                     </formalpara>
                  </listitem>
               </itemizedlist>
            </para>
         </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
         <formalpara>
            <title>Message Driven Beans</title>
            <para>
        Message driven beans provide asynchronous service offerings to clients (i.e. services where the client does not
        have to wait while the bean processes a service request, but instead may continue immediately). They process 
        service requests from a <acronym>JMS</acronym> (Java Messaging Service) message queue or topic.
      </para>
         </formalpara>
      </listitem>
     <listitem>
        <formalpara>
           <title>Entity Beans</title>
           <para>
              Entities are objects of which the state is persisted to a database for longer-term storage. They represent the
              data model of the system (i.e. customers, accounts, products) and are hosted by a sophisticated database
              integration layer which shields the developer from having to perform database transactions himself with
              languages such as SQL.
           </para>
        </formalpara>
     </listitem>
  </itemizedlist>
</para>