<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns7205:section xmlns:ns7205="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.staticNestedClasses.staticNestedClasses">
    
  <ns7206:title xmlns:ns7206="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Static Nested Classes</ns7206:title>
  <ns7207:para xmlns:ns7207="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Static nested classes (or simply <ns7208:emphasis xmlns:ns7208="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="em"> nested classes</ns7208:emphasis>) are classes defined
    within another class. Being static, they have only access to the class
    methods and attributes of the outer class, not the instance members.
<ns7209:programlisting xmlns:ns7209="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
public class OuterClass
{
  protected static class InnerClass
  {
    public InnerClass() {}

    public void doSomething()
    {
      // can access classMember
      // cannot access instanceMember
    }
  }

  private InstanceMember instanceMember;
  private static ClassMember classMember;
}
</ns7209:programlisting>
</ns7207:para>
<ns7210:para xmlns:ns7210="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Depending on the scope with which they are defined, they can be instantiated
either from within the outer class in whose context the inner class is
defined (<ns7211:emphasis xmlns:ns7211="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">private</ns7211:emphasis>), or only from within the outer class and its
subclasses <ns7212:emphasis xmlns:ns7212="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="bf">protected</ns7212:emphasis>, from within all classes in the package
or from within any class which has access to the outer class (<ns7213:emphasis xmlns:ns7213="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">public</ns7213:emphasis>).</ns7210:para>

<ns7214:para xmlns:ns7214="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Except if one has some strange reason for not wanting to nest the package
hierarchy any further, static nested classes are only really useful when
they are declared <ns7215:emphasis xmlns:ns7215="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">private</ns7215:emphasis> or <ns7216:emphasis xmlns:ns7216="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">protected</ns7216:emphasis>. In these cases one
restricts the objects/classes which can see and/or instantiate the nested
class to either the class itself or to the class and its subclasses.</ns7214:para>

<ns7217:para xmlns:ns7217="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">If the nested class is declared private in the above example other classes
cannot obtain a handle to the nested class. If, on the other hand, the
nested class implements some interface then the outer class can give a
handle for the inner to some external class. The external class can then
make use of those services of the inner class whose message signatures
have been specified in the corresponding interface. Assume we have the
following interface

<ns7218:programlisting xmlns:ns7218="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
public Interface SomeInterface
{
  public void doSomething();
}
</ns7218:programlisting>
</ns7217:para>
<ns7219:para xmlns:ns7219="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns7220:programlisting xmlns:ns7220="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
public class OuterClass
{
  public OuterClass() {inner = new InnerClass();}

  protected static class InnerClass implements SomeInterface
  {
    public InnerClass() {}

    public void doSomething()
    {
      // can access classMember
      // cannot access instanceMember
    }

    public doSomethingElse() {...}
  }

  public SomeInterface getInner() {return inner;}

  private InnerClass inner;
  private InstanceMember instanceMember;
  private static ClassMember classMember;
}
</ns7220:programlisting>
</ns7219:para>
<ns7221:para xmlns:ns7221="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  Now objects which have a reference to an instance of <ns7222:emphasis xmlns:ns7222="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">OuterClass</ns7222:emphasis>
  can obtain a reference to the instance of outer's <ns7223:emphasis xmlns:ns7223="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">InnerClass</ns7223:emphasis>
  (as a reference to <ns7224:emphasis xmlns:ns7224="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">SomeInterface</ns7224:emphasis>) and can request the
  <ns7225:emphasis xmlns:ns7225="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">doSomething()</ns7225:emphasis> service from that object:
   <ns7226:programlisting xmlns:ns7226="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
public class Test
{
  public static void main(String[] args)
  {
    OuterClass outer = new OuterClass();

    SomeInterface inner = outer.getInner();

    inner.doSomething(); // no problem

    inner.doSomethingElse(); // XXX no access.
  }
}

   </ns7226:programlisting>
</ns7221:para>
    
  <ns7227:section xmlns:ns7227="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns7228:title xmlns:ns7228="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Nesting interfaces and classes</ns7228:title>
    <ns7229:para xmlns:ns7229="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      One can also 
      <ns7230:itemizedlist xmlns:ns7230="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns7231:listitem xmlns:ns7231="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns7232:para xmlns:ns7232="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          nest one interface within another,   
        </ns7232:para></ns7231:listitem>
        <ns7233:listitem xmlns:ns7233="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns7234:para xmlns:ns7234="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          a class within an interface, 
        </ns7234:para></ns7233:listitem>
        <ns7235:listitem xmlns:ns7235="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns7236:para xmlns:ns7236="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          or an interface within a class.
        </ns7236:para></ns7235:listitem>
      </ns7230:itemizedlist>
    </ns7229:para>
  </ns7227:section>
  
  <ns7237:section xmlns:ns7237="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns7238:title xmlns:ns7238="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">When would one want to use static nested classes?</ns7238:title>
    <ns7239:para xmlns:ns7239="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Static nested classes provide essentially a packaging construct. The rational for using
      static nested classes or nested interfaces is thus usually that of convenient packaging.
      Examples include
      <ns7240:itemizedlist xmlns:ns7240="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns7241:listitem xmlns:ns7241="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns7242:para xmlns:ns7242="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          Packaging a default implementation with an interface.
        </ns7242:para></ns7241:listitem>
        <ns7243:listitem xmlns:ns7243="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns7244:para xmlns:ns7244="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          Packaging a default concrete class with an abstract class.
        </ns7244:para></ns7243:listitem>
        <ns7245:listitem xmlns:ns7245="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns7246:para xmlns:ns7246="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          Packaging extended interfaces with more basic interfaces.
        </ns7246:para></ns7245:listitem>
        <ns7247:listitem xmlns:ns7247="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns7248:para xmlns:ns7248="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          Packaging exception classes relevant for a particular contract (interface) with that
          interface.
        </ns7248:para></ns7247:listitem>
      </ns7240:itemizedlist>
    </ns7239:para>
    <ns7249:para xmlns:ns7249="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Static nested classes reduce the class clutter by packaging classes or interfaces within
      classes or interfaces.
    </ns7249:para>
  </ns7237:section>
</ns7205:section>