<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Services within the context of Services-Oriented Architectures</title>
    <para>
        To understand services oriented architectures we need to have a clear understanding
        of the concept of a service. 
        <blockquote><para><emphasis>
            A service or use case is an activity or sequence of activities which generates some value to the 
            user of the service.
        </emphasis></para></blockquote>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Attributes of a service</title>
        <para>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Inputs</title>
                        <para>
                            A service may require certain information from users which need to either
                            <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    be provided upon service request or,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    will be requested from the user during the process of realizing the service.
                                </para></listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
              
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Outputs</title>
                        <para>
                            A service generates certain outputs for the user which are provided to the user either
                            <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    during the course of realizing the service, or
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    after completion of the service.
                                </para></listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Preconditions</title>
                        <para>
                            A service may not be available unconditionally. If a service has certain pre-conditions, then the
                            service provider is entitled to refuse the service without the service refusal being in breach of the
                            services contract. They typically refer to a state in the environment of the service under which the
                            service is not provided. For example, if an account is in a state where the available funds are lower
                            than the withdrawel amount requested for a withdrawel service, then the service may be refused
                            without the bank being in breach of contract.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Post-conditions</title>
                        <para>
                            The post-conditions are the conditions which must hold after the service has been provided. These
                            refer to the way the service modifies its environment. For example, after the debit service has been
                            provided, the state of the account balance has been changed to what it was prior to the service request
                            minus the withdrawel amount, and the state of the transaction history of that account has changed 
                            such that it includes the withdrawel transaction.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>    
                </listitem>
                
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Service qualities</title>
                        <para>
                            The service qualities refer to non-functional service attributes like, for example, 
                            <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    performance, the time required to realize a service request,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    reliability, an upper limit on the percentage of service requestsfor which the
                                    contractual obligations are not met of for which the service could not be
                                    provided,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    scalability, the number of service requests which can be processed per unit time
                                    or the number of service requests which can be processed concurrently.
                                </para></listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>        
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>The services contract</title>
        <para>
            The services contract wil thus specify
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the inputs and outputs,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the pre- and post-conditions,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the message exchange patterns,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    and the required qualities of service.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Requirements for a service</title>
        <para>
            General requirements for a service include
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>No persistent state across service requests</title>
                        <para>
                            Even though a service will typically 
                            <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    maintain state across the (business) process of realizing
                                    a particular instance of a service request, and
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    may affect the service environment in some persistent way,
                                </para></listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                            there is no aspect of state within the service which is shared across
                            service invocations.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Self-contained</title>
                        <para>
                            Although a service may and often would make use of lower level services,
                            it may not have any direct dependencies on the service from which it is called or
                            on services which are requested after the completion of this service.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Self-healing</title>
                        <para>
                            A service should gracefully recover from an error in such a way that
                            a problem encoutered within one invocation of a service, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>
                            within a business process realizing a particular service request, should not
                            affect other invocations of that service.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>        
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>    