<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section 
    xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" version="5.0">
    <title>Content-based routing</title>
    <para>
        A message sender should often not know who should process a message.
        For example, a flight booking and the request for a special meal might
        both be submitted to the airline, but the first should be processed
        by reservations whilst the second should be processed by catering.
    </para>
    <para>
        The client who submits those messages should, however, not have to know the internal
        responsibility distribution across departments and/or systems within the
        airline. They simply submit messages into a single channel. A content based
        router inspects the content of the message and depending on the content routes it
        either one way or another.
        <note><para>
            The content based routing pattern fully <emphasis>decouples</emphasis> the
            message sender from the message processors.
        </para></note>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Content based routing in the context of pipes and filters</title>
        <para>
            In a pipes and filters architecture processes are assembled from stateless services
            which have no knowledge of what has been done before or what should be done next.
            In such architectures the routing of a messages through a business process is
            commonly done through content based routing.
        </para>        
    </section>
</section>    
