<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" version="5.0">
      <title>Outcomes</title>
      <para>
      After successful completion of the course, candidates should be able to
      <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Map UML diagrams onto Java with correct implementation of
          specialization, composition, aggregation and association relationships.
        </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Both use, and write, classes that make use of Java Generics
        </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Both use, and write, Java Annotations
        </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Write corruption- and deadlock-safe multi-threaded applications.
        </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Perform sophisticated streaming I/O, including object serialization and
          random access files.
        </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Use the Java NIO facilities to perform high-performance and non-blocking I/O
        </para>
            </listitem>        
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Develop Swing graphical user interfaces with correct Model-View-Controller binding.
        </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Develop networked (UDP and TCP/IP) clients and servers.
        </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Write RMI/CORBA servers and clients, as well as write stand-alone clients that
          request services from Enterprise JavaBeans.
        </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Write clients which authenticate themselves with certificates,
          perform and encryption, decryption and message digest operations.
        </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Develop <literal>JUnit</literal> unit tests, and follow test-driven development practices.  
        </para>
            </listitem>
         </itemizedlist>
      </para>
  </section>