<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <para>
      SOA is a reference architecture which prescribes a <emphasis>standardised infrastructure
        for publishing and integrating services</emphasis>. It acknowledges that many services
      exist in different locations, accessible via different communications protocols,
      and which exchange different sets of information.
    </para>
    <para>
      SOA intends to make such <quote>incompatible</quote> services not only
      compatible, but also able to participate together in business processes
      which are hosted by the SOA infrastructure itself.
    </para>
    <para>
      Though the concepts promoted by SOA is not particularly complex, a great amount 
      of confusion exists as to what exactly SOA <emphasis>is</emphasis>, due to there
      being no official all-encompassing standards body which formally defines and evolves
      SOA. Instead, many industry role players have slightly differing opinions of SOA,
      a combination of which through we can draw our own conclusions as to the most 
      important principles of SOA.
    </para>
    <para>
      The key <emphasis>elements</emphasis> of an SOA are
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <formalpara>
            <title>Services</title>
            <para>Autonomous, stateless, contract-driven service providers</para>
          </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <formalpara>
            <title>Service Integration Infrastructure (The Enterprise Services Bus, or ESB)</title>
            <para>An environment within which to integrate and manage heterogenous services</para>
          </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <formalpara>
            <title>A Business Process Execution engine (BPEE)</title>
            <para>A facility through which existing services can be orchestrated to offer
            a new, higher-level service to clients.</para>
          </formalpara>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
  <para>
    The <emphasis>goals</emphasis> of the Services-Oriented Architecture reference architecture are
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>improved flexibility / agility</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>improved integrability</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>reduced time-to-market</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>reduced technical skills requirement to implement business processes</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </para>
  <note>
    <para>
      SOA does not itself provide the container within which services are hosted. Separate business logic containers
      (such as Java EE, or Microsoft .NET) continue to be used, for they posess the qualities of hosting a scalable,
      secure service with services such as persistence. SOA specifies the infrastructure to publish, integrate,
      and orchestrate services through.
    </para>
  </note>
  
</section>