<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>The vision statement for an organization</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>vision statement</primary><secondary>for organization</secondary></indexterm>
        The vision statement encapsulates the core purpose of the organization, its long term vision and values.
        It is usually very broadly formulated. 
        and contains a vision for the long term status of the organization, which should
        be inspiring for its members and stake holders.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Example vision statements</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>vision statement</primary><secondary>examples for</secondary></indexterm>
            Below there is a list of vision statements for a range of organizations.
        </para>
        
        <section>
            <title>General Motors</title>
            <indexterm><primary>vision statement</primary><secondary>General Motors</secondary></indexterm>
            <blockquote><para><emphasis>
                GM’s vision is to be the world leader in transportation products and related services. 
                We will earn our customers’ enthusiasm through continuous improvement driven by 
                the integrity, teamwork, and innovation of GM people.
            </emphasis></para></blockquote>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Soup Kitchen</title>
            <indexterm><primary>vision statement</primary><secondary>Soup Kitchen</secondary></indexterm>
            <para>
                <blockquote><para><emphasis>
                    No child in our city will go hungry to bed in the evening.
                </emphasis></para></blockquote>
            </para>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Illiteracy program</title>
            <indexterm><primary>vision statement</primary><secondary>Illiteracy program</secondary></indexterm>
            <blockquote><para>
                <emphasis>
                    In two decades our services will no longer be needed.
                </emphasis>
            </para></blockquote>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Option One Mortgage</title>
            <indexterm><primary>vision statement</primary><secondary>Option One Mortgage</secondary></indexterm>
            <blockquote><para><emphasis>
                To be widely recognized as the premiere provider of innovative financial products and services.
            </emphasis></para></blockquote>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Cleveland Clinic Palliative Care Program</title>
            <indexterm><primary>vision statement</primary><secondary>Cleveland Clinic Palliative Care Program</secondary></indexterm>
            <para>
                <blockquote><para><emphasis>
                    To be recognized internationally as a program based on clinical excellence, 
                    comprehensive research activities and commitment to education at all levels.
                </emphasis></para></blockquote>
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>
    
</section>    
    