<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.xpath.locationPaths.nodeTests.nodeTests">
  <title>Node Tests</title>
  <para> Axis Specifiers generally result in a collection of nodes, based
    on their structural relationship to the <literal>context
    node</literal>. Node tests are a way of narrowing these results to
    particular types of nodes. </para>
  <para> Every axis has a principal node type. If an axis can contain
    elements, then the principal node type is <literal>element</literal>;
    otherwise, it is the type of the nodes that the axis can contain.
    Thus, <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>For the attribute axis, the principal node type is
          attribute.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>For the namespace axis, the principal node type is
          namespace.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>For other axes, the principal node type is element.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist> A node test that is a <literal>QName</literal>
    (Qualified Name, including namespace prefix if any) is
    <literal>true</literal> if and only if the type of the node is the
    principal node type, and has an expanded-name equal to the
    expanded-name specified by the QName. For example,
      <literal>child::para</literal> selects the <literal>para</literal>
    element children of the context node; if the context node has no
      <literal>para</literal> children, it will select an empty set of
    nodes. <literal>attribute::href</literal> selects the
    <literal>href</literal> attribute of the context node; if the context
    node has no href attribute, it will select an empty set of nodes. </para>

  <xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    href="typesOfNodeTest.docbook"/>
  <xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    href="exampleSimple.docbook"/>

</section>
