<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.xpath.locationPaths.nodeTests.typesOfNodeTest">
  <title>Types of node test</title>
  <para> These are the various types of node tests that may be performed
    on all axis: <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>name</title>
          <para> Selects all elements called <literal>name</literal>. For
            example, <literal>child::price</literal> selects all
              <literal>price</literal> elements who are children of the
            context node. </para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>prefix:name</title>
          <para> Selects all elements called <literal>name</literal> in
            the <literal>prefix</literal> namespace. For example,
              <literal>attribute::xml:lang</literal> selects all
              <literal>lang</literal> attributes of the context node in
            the <literal>xml</literal> namespace. </para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>*</title>
          <para> Selects all the nodes. For example,
            <literal>attribute::*</literal> selects all the attributes of
            the context node. </para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>node()</title>
          <para> Selects all nodes, whatever their type. For example,
              <literal>child::node()</literal> selects all children of the
            context node, including attributes, processing instructions,
            etc. </para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>text()</title>
          <para> Selects all text nodes in the given axis. For example,
              <literal>child::text()</literal> selects all the text nodes
            of the context element. </para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>comment()</title>
          <para> Selects all the comment nodes in the given axis. For
            example, <literal>following-sibling::comment()</literal>
            selects all the comments after the context node, who share the
            same parent. </para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>processing-instruction()</title>
          <para> Selects all the processing instructions in the given
            axis. </para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </para>
</section>
