<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         version="5.0"
         xml:id="resources.information.technologies.web.css.properties.text.text">
    <title>Text Properties</title>
    <para>
      The CSS text properties affect the visual presentation (size and shape) of text.
      It allows for precise control over text alignment, white-space handling, and even 
      has support for the basic manipulation of text (e.g. upper- or lowercase).
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>'font-family'</title>
        <para>
            This is the font itself, such as 'Times New Roman', 'Arial' or 'Verdana'. The font you specify must be on the user's 
            computer, so there is little point in using obscure fonts. There are a select few 'safe' fonts (the most commonly 
            used are <literal>arial</literal>, <literal>verdana</literal> and <literal>times new roman</literal>), but you can specify 
            more than one font, separated by commas. The purpose of this is that if the user does not have the first font you specified, 
            the renderer (e.g. browser) will go through the list until it finds one it does have. This is useful because different 
            computers sometimes have different fonts installed. So <literal>font-family: arial, helvetica</literal>, for example, 
            is used so that similar fonts are used on PC (which usually has arial, but not helvetica) and Apple Mac 
            (which does not usually have arial, and so helvetica, which it does normally have, will be used).
        </para>
        <note>
            <para>
                If the name of a font is more than one word, it should be put in quotation marks, such as font-family: "Times New Roman".
            </para>
        </note>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>'font-size'</title>
        <para>
            The size of the font. Specified in any of the standard CSS units of measure.            
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>'font-weight'</title>
        <para>
            This states whether the text is bold or not. In practice this usually only works 
            as <literal>font-weight: bold</literal> or <literal>font-weight: normal</literal>. In theory it can also 
            be <literal>bolder</literal>, <literal>lighter</literal>, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, 600, 700, 800 or 900, but
            many renderers do yet support this precise level of control.
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>'font-style'</title>
        <para>
            This states whether the text is italic or not. It can be <literal>font-style: italic</literal>,
            <literal>font-style: normal</literal> or <literal>font-style: oblique</literal> .
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>'text-decoration'</title>
        <para>
           This states whether the text is underlined or not. This can be:
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                  <literal>text-decoration: overline</literal>, which places a line above the text.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                  <literal>text-decoration: line-through</literal>, or <literal>strike-through</literal>, which puts a line through the text.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                  <literal>text-decoration: underline</literal> 
                  <emphasis>should only be used for links</emphasis>, because users generally expect underlined 
                        text to be links. This property is usually used to decorate links, such as specifying no underline with 
                        <literal>text-decoration: none</literal>.</para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>'text-transform'</title>
        <para>
            This will change the case of the text.
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                  <literal>text-transform: capitalize</literal> turns the first letter of every word into uppercase.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                  <literal>text-transform: uppercase</literal> turns everything into uppercase.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                  <literal>text-transform: lowercase</literal> turns everything into lowercase.</para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Examples</title>
        <figure>
            <title>Example Text CSS Properties</title>
            <programlisting>
            <xi:include href="src/example.css" parse="text"/>
            </programlisting>
        </figure>
    </section>
</section>