<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>The stake holders of a project</title>
    <para> 
        Stake holders are the individuals and organizations which have an interest in the
        project. Any requirement must ultimately be traceable back to a stake holder. </para>
    <para> To ensure project success, project management must identify stake holders early in the
        project, determine their needs and expectations, and manage their expectations over the
        course of the project. </para>

    <section>
        <title>Client management</title>
        <para> Client management includes those role players who are involved in the strategic
            decision making of the client organization. Client management is the agent of the
            investors within the organization. It <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> is accountable to investors, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> requests approval for the project from investors, providing investors
                        with an understanding of the cost, benefit and risk of the project, and
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> provide feedback on the project to investors. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>The project sponsor</title>
        <para> The project sponsor is that role player within the client organization from whose
            cost center the project is funded. The project sponsor makes the business case for the
            project, has the authority to <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> define project goals and the success criteria for the project, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> secure resources for the project, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> resolve priority conflicts, and </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> and sign off the deliverables of the project. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Business analysis</title>
        <para> This is the team which is responsible for generating, documenting, validating,
            communicating and managing the business process design and the detailed business
            requirements for the project. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>The oversight committee</title>
        <para> The oversight committee is that body which tracks the project from the perspective of
            the client. It <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> provides recommendations to business regarding project initiation and
                        continuance, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> monitors baselines (performance, cost, schedule, ...) </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> performs periodic reviews of the project, </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Project management</title>
        <para> Project management is responsible for managing the project such that it is
            successfully executed. This requires that the deliverables are realized within time and
            budget and at an acceptable level of quality. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>The technical team</title>
        <para> This is the team which develops the technology solution. In the case where the
            project requires that business processes need to be mapped onto one's chosen
            architecture and technologies, it is the technical team which is responsible for that
            mapping. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Users</title>
        <para> Users of the product(s) of the project. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Other stake holders</title>
        <para> There are typically still a wide range of further stake holders which may specify
            explicit requirements for a project including regulatory organizations, tax revenue
            collectors, business partners, service providers and the share holders of the client
            organization itself. </para>
    </section>
</section>
