<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Creating a branch</title>
    <para>
        A branch is simply a copy of the project which evolves separately. You will create thus a branch by copying a particular revision
        of the project into a branch.
    </para>
    <para>
        Assume you have created the standard subversion project structure which has three directories in the root, <literal>trunk</literal>,
        <literal>branches</literal> and <literal>tags</literal>. To create from the trunk a new branch you use the <literal>copy</literal>
        command:
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn copy trunk branches/myBranch
A         branches/myBranch
                ]]></programlisting>
        followed by the standard
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn commit -m 'added branch myBranch of revision 19 to do X'                    
]]></programlisting>
        This approach creates the copy in the working directory and commits it.
    </para>
    
    <note><para>
        Subversion does not really copy all the files. Instead it creates links in the file system. Creating a new branch has thus
        very little disk space overheads.
    </para></note>
    
    <section>
        <title>Short-hand command to create branch</title>
        <para>
            The two steps to create the branch can also be done within a single <literal>copy</literal> which takes two
            URLs as parameters:
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn copy svn://localhost/myProject/trunk \
         svn://localhost/myProject/branches/mySecondBranch \
         -m 'creating second branch of revision 19 to attempt to to X via approach Y'

Committed revision 21.
]]></programlisting>
            This command thus creates the branch on the server side without copying anything in the working directory.
        </para>
        <para>
            This approach is particularly useful when you have only checked out the trunk and not the entire project with the various
            branches. In this case, after having issued the <literal>copy</literal> command, you can use the <literal>switch</literal>
            command to switch your working copy to refer to the newly created branch and no longer the trunk.
        </para>
        <para>
            Thus, after having checked out the projects trunk and created our branch we can switch our working copy to this branch:
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn checkout svn://localhost/myProject/trunk
...
svn copy svn://localhost/myProject/trunk \
         svn://localhost/myProject/branches/mySecondBranch \
         -m 'creating second branch of revision 19 to attempt to to X via approach Y'

svn switch svn://localhost/myProject/branches/myBranch .
                ]]></programlisting>
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    