<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">
    <title>Updating the working copy via
        <literal>svn update</literal>
    </title>
    <para>
        The
        <literal>update</literal>
        command is used to update the state of a working copy to that of the repository.
        You can update the working copy to the latest (current) revision of the repository or to the state of some other
        specified
        revision.
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Updating to the latest revision</title>
        <para>
            To update a working copy to the latest respoitory revision you simply use
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn update           
]]></programlisting>
            You can specify optionally a path to the resource (file or directory) which you would like to have updated.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Updating to a specific revision</title>
        <para>
            In order to update to a particular revision you use the
            <literal>-r</literal>
            command line parameter. For example,
            to update a working copy to revision 3 you use
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn update - r 3           
]]></programlisting>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>What happens with an update?</title>
        <para>
            With an update one of the following will happen:
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                        New files in the repository are copied to the working copy.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                        Files which have been deleted in the repository are removed from the working copy irespective of
                        wheather
                        it has been locally modified or not.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                        Files which have been modified on the server side but not in the working copy are copied to the
                        working copy.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                        If a files has been modified in both, the repository and the working copy, subversion will
                        attempt to merge
                        the changes. If changes are made to the same areas within both files a conflict is identified.
                        Subversion
                        will mark the conflict and notify you of the conflict. You will have to resolve any conflicts
                        before you can
                        commit your changes.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Update flags</title>
        <para>
            The
            <literal>update</literal>
            command will list all modifications to the working copy by flagging each
            item with one of the following flags
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                        <literal>U</literal>
                        : this resouce has been updated.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                        <literal>G</literal>
                        : respository changes have been merged with changes made to the local copy.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                        <literal>A</literal>
                        : this resouce has been added to the working copy.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                        <literal>D</literal>
                        : this resource has been removed from the working copy.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>
                        <literal>C</literal>
                        : the update resulted in a conflict which must be resolved before committing that resouce.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

</section>  