<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.xsl-transform.templates.directInvocation.directInvocation">
  <title>Directly invoking templates</title>

  <para> At times, one wants to directly invoke templates (based on their
    name) rather than have them automatically invoked based on their
      <literal>match</literal> expression. These often take the form of
    simple (static) templates that output fixed or macro content, or they
    may receive parameters, in which case they function similar to method
    calls in a programming language. </para>
  <para> In order to be eligible for direct calling, a template needs to
    declare a name, instead of a match expression. For example: <programlisting><![CDATA[
<xsl:template name="printFooter">
    <html:div class="footer">
        © 2006 Solms TCD. No rights reserved.
    </html:div>
</xsl:template>
        ]]></programlisting> This may then be called (repeatedly, is
    desired) from other templates, for example: <programlisting><![CDATA[
<xsl:template match="/foo">
    <!-- Do other stuff -->
    <!-- ... -->
    
    <!-- Call footer template -->
    <xsl:call-template name="printFooter"/>
</xsl:template>
        ]]></programlisting>
  </para>

  <section>
    <title>Invoking templates with parameters</title>
    <para> A named template may declare that it expects one or more
      parameters. The following template, for example will print the full
      name of a person, represented by an element that contains a
        <literal>firstName</literal> and a <literal>surName</literal>
      sub-elements. It expects to receive this element as a named
      parameter called <literal>person</literal>. This parameter is
      available as a standard XSLT variable, used by prefixing with a
      dollar. <programlisting><![CDATA[
<!-- Prints the full name of a person -->
<xsl:template name="printFullName">
    <xsl:param name="person"/>
    <xsl:value-of select="$person/firstName"/>
    <xsl:value-of select="$person/surName"/>
</xsl:template>
            ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
    <para> Another template may invoke this re-usable template, by passing
      it appropriate parameters. For example, a template, which matches on
      a client (which has first and surnames) may use the template as
      follows: <programlisting><![CDATA[
<!-- Displays a client's details in XHTML -->
<xsl:template match="//client">
    <!-- Write the full name in a level 1 heading -->
    <html:h1>
        <xsl:call-template name="printFullName">
            <!-- Pass it the current context object, which
                contains a first- and surname -->
            <xsl:with-param name="person" select="."/>
        </xsl:call-template>
    </html:h1>
    
    <!-- Output rest of the client's details ... -->
</xsl:template>
            ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
  </section>
</section>
