<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Reliability</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>reliability</primary><secondary>in the blackboard pattern</secondary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>blackboard pattern</primary></indexterm>
        The blackboard pattern provides an infrastructure within which a high level of reliability can be achieved.
        <indexterm><primary>infrastructure</primary></indexterm>
        The architecture naturally supports expert redundency and hence reliability in the context of
        <indexterm><primary>redundency</primary><secondary>expert</secondary></indexterm>
        individual expert failure.
        <indexterm><primary>expert</primary><secondary>failure</secondary></indexterm>
        If a particular expert fails, another can take over the process and drive it.
    </para>
    <para>
        Furthermore, the experts can be deployed in a distributed way across different hosts, thereby further
        <indexterm><primary>expert</primary></indexterm>
        improving scalability. The architecture readily supports both expert clusters and expert grids.
        <indexterm><primary>expert</primary><secondary>cluster</secondary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>expert</primary><secondary>grid</secondary></indexterm>
    </para>
    <para>
        Reliability can be further improved by allowing for <emphasis>back-tracking</emphasis>
        <indexterm><primary>back-tracking</primary></indexterm>
        in cases where a taken path proves not to lead to a solution.
    </para>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>collaborative</primary></indexterm>
        On the other side, the collaborative quest to realize a service/solve a problem is not guaranteed to lead
        to a solution. This may be due to the expert having insufficient expertiese/knowledge or due to the
        problem being non-solvable.
    </para>
    <para>
        Finally, in its basic form the blackboard architecture has single points of failure in both, the blackboard
        <indexterm><primary>single point of failure</primary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>controller</primary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>blackboard</primary></indexterm>
        itself and the controller. In order to achieve high levels of reliability one may need to introduce
        redundency in both, the blackboard and the controller.
        <indexterm><primary>redundency</primary></indexterm>
    </para>
</section>
