<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>The role players in ATAM and their responsibilities</title>
    <para>
        The 3 groups participating in ATAM are the
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>the evaluation team,</para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>the project decision makers, and</para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>the architecture stake holders.</para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>The evaluation team</title>
        <para>
            This is a group whose members are not part of the project team. They can be
            external consultants or architects from within the organization. The size of the
            group is typically 3 or more. The evaluation team should contain the following
            skills set:
            <orderedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    A solid background in architecture, quality attributes and architecture evaluation.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Understand the technologies in which the architecture is realized.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Good analytical skills.  
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Good facilitation skills.  
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Good presentation skills.  
                </para></listitem>
            </orderedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>The project decision makers</title>
        <para>
            This team includes 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>project management,</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>the project sponsor and</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>the person/team who commissioned the architecture evaluation.</para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>The architecture stake holders</title>
        <para>
            This team includes representation from all stake holders in the architecture including
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>the project's architect/architecture team,</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>developers, testers, integrators, engineers, ..., and</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>users.</para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>    
    