<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section
    xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" version="5.0">
    <title>Business benefits and strengths of a Services Oriented Enterprise</title>
    <para>
        Evolving an organization into a Services Oriented Enterprise aims to provide a number of benefits to the
        organization which ultimately contribute to the organization being able to realize increased stakeholder
        value. The core benefits envisaged from evolving toward a services-oriented enterprise include the following:
        
        <itemizedlist>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Culture of service delivery</title>
                <para>
                    A SOE  grows a culture of service where each business unit is focused on service delivery and value 
                    generation. Business units are service providers, service consumers and at times observers. 
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Contracts-based approach</title>
                <para>
                    In a SOE, the focus is on clear formulation of services contracts which specify the functional requirements
                    for services as well as the quality requirements. The services contracts
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            formalizes client requirements,        
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            localizes accountabilities,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            facilitates testability and service provider performance monitoring,       
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            facilitates service provider pluggability resulting in lower cost and reduced business risk, and
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            improves reliability.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                    The services contracts specify both, the functional and the non-functional (<abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> quality)
                    requirements. The functional requirements define what needs to be provided and the quality requirements
                    specify the required services qualities including requirements around
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            reliability,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            scalability,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            performance,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            service accessibility, integrability and delivery channels,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            cost constraints, ...
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Improved reuse</title>
                <para>
                    As services the organization's business processes are assembled across self-contained, 
                    contract-based services, a SOE is in a position to achieve a high level of reuse,
                    of services available within and outside the organization. This
                    improves responsibility localization and organizational focus, making the organization
                    more lean and mission-focused.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Effective service governance</title>
                <para>
                    Effective service governance through contracts management, managing preferred service providers
                    for services contracts, as well as through improved monitorability and auditability of service delivery.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Competitative business units</title>
                <para>
                    A SOE provides an infrastructure within which internal business units need to continuously compete against 
                    external service providers, ensuring they remain cost effective and competitative.                    
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Globally integrated organization</title>
                <para>
                    A services oriented enterprise views itself as fully integrated within the global market, continuously sourcing services
                    from the market and updating the servcices portfolio it provides to the market. In this context, 
                    SOEs represent virtual, extended enterprises which are globally connected. They operate within an infrastructure
                    which caters for the assembly assembly business processes across enterprises, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> 
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            a business process can be easily assembled from services which are available to the organization including
                            services which are realized within the organization itself and services which are sourced globally, and
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            the services offered by the organization can be easily incorporated within business processes of other 
                            organizations.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                    In either case the services reused could be automated within systems or realized manually.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Improved flexibility and time-to-market</title>
                <para>
                    Flexibitlity and time to market are driven by the ease with which new business processes can be assembled from 
                    services available to the organization, the high level of reuse and the ease with which business processes
                    can be modified.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Not structure focused</title>
                <para>
                    In an SOE, the focus is on service delivery. Any structure elements explicitly only serves to support
                    the business processes realizing the services. This results in an organizational structure of minimal
                    complexity and overheads which is continuously optimized around value generation. 
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Simpler performance measurement and management</title>
                <para> 
                    SOEs have a services infrastructure which facilitates the delivery of
                    service requests and receipt of service outputs. All measurements are done
                    either around services delivering value. Measurements may cover
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            cost and resource consumption,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            value generation,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            reliability,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            usability, and
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            accessibility.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Reduced gap between business and IT</title>
                <para>
                    A services centric approach can assist to significantly reduce the gap between business and IT.
                    The gap is further reduced when
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            business analysts perform technology neutral business process design with sufficient semantics
                            and rigor to facilitate clean technology mappings,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            business analysts generate technology neutral services contracts specifications which are to be 
                            realized by IT systems,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            the IT infrastructure is based around SOA based technologies.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Software as service</title>
                <para>
                    A SOE is naturally aligned with a business model of <emphasis>software as service</emphasis>, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>
                    where customers do not own the software itself but pay for service usage instead.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Business processes visible to business</title>
                <para>
                    A common problem is that of business processes being largely hidden within software systems. This makes it traditionally
                    difficult for business to perform solid business process optimization. In an SOE, business processes are designed and
                    documented by business analysts in a technology neutral way with business being able to take full ownership of the business
                    processes. The monitorability and auditability of business processes further improves the visibility of business processes
                    to business.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Simpler ROI estimation</title>
                <para>
                    In a services oriented enterprise cost and value generation is measured for all services 
                    across levels of granularity. Furthermore, new new services are largely assembled form 
                    existing services sourced from within or outside the organization. 
                    This framework makes it significantly simpler to perform Return-On-Investment
                    (ROI) estimations for new services.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Improved resilience</title>
                <para>
                    An organization which is leaner and more flexible is more resilient, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>
                    better equipped to survive in an environment of changing opportunities and competition.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    