<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Project background</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>project background</primary><secondary>COFLoader</secondary></indexterm>
        The client is a emergency health care provider who does not sell emergency health care products directly to consumers, but
        who packages these within other products sold by their clients. For example, emergency health care cover can be embedded
        within mobile phone contracts, medical aid products and automobile association memberships.
    </para>
    <para>
        These clients who sell the products within which the emergency health care products are embedded provide policy holder lists
        in large data streams. Typically this is in the form of large files encoded in some client-specific protocol. The quality
        of data varies considerably from client organization to client organization. Since the packaged emergency health care
        products are not core for the client's business, they are not willing to invest significantly in providing improved data
        streams or in developing systems which provide the data in a standard form.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Current problems</title>
        <para>
            The problems the emergency health care provider is currently experiencing include
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    Due to the low quality of data provided by their clients, the data integrity of the policy holder database is severely compromised
                    with a lot of duplication of policy holders, varying amount of data and invalid data. Currently the emergency health care provider has an estimated 
                    5 million policy holders, but the policy holder database contains around 8 million policy holder records. The only way the current systems
                    can identify two policy holder records as being for the same person is on their identity or social security number.
                    At times the clients of the emergency health care provider either capture this identifier incorrectly or omit to capture it
                    at all.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The number of clients who provide data is growing continuously. Adding new workflows to the current system which processes
                    data from these new clients is a cumbersome and time consuming exercise which often breaks the data processing work flows
                    for their current clients. Furthermore, as the data formats used by their clients changes, the corresponding updates need
                    to be made to the policy holder loading process for that client. This too is time consuming and error prone.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Management requires flexible reporting on the client loading. Currently the only report which can be provided is a default
                    report generated by the system.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The current system is very slow, taking up to two days to process some of the large client files. It also has reliability issues in that
                    it crashes on certain invalid data streams. These then have to be manipulated by hand before the process can be restarted.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    
</section>