<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns601:section xmlns:ns601="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.referenceArchitectures.j2ee.whatDoesEjbContainerProvide.componentPooling">

  <ns602:title xmlns:ns602="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Component pooling</ns602:title>
  <ns603:para xmlns:ns603="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Component pooling is possible because, as we shall see, clients do not
      obtain a direct reference to the enterprise bean instance.
  </ns603:para>
  <ns604:para xmlns:ns604="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      As one deploys enterprise beans within a container, the container typically
      creates a pool of instances of the bean. The algorithm used is specific to the
      container -- this is one of the many areas where application server vendors
      compete.
  </ns604:para>
  <ns605:para xmlns:ns605="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Pooling is particularly simple for stateless session beans which provide a set
      of client services but which do not maintain information across service
      requests. In this case the session bean is returned to the pool upon completion
      of the service and if the same or another client requests a service from that
      same enterprise bean one of the bean instances in the pool is allocated to
      the client.
  </ns605:para>
  <ns606:para xmlns:ns606="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Containers also provide component pooling and life-cycle management for other
      enterprise beans. For message-driven beans it is basically as simple as for
      stateless session beans. For stateful session beans and entity beans the state
      has to be persisted before the same bean instance can be used for another client.
  </ns606:para>
  <ns607:para xmlns:ns607="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      If, say during peak hours, the demand for a particular enterprise bean increases,
      the container can dynamically increase the pool size and at a later stage, 
      when the load decreases, the pool size can be reduced again.
  </ns607:para>
  <ns608:para xmlns:ns608="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      A relatively small number of beans can thus serve a large number of clients.
  </ns608:para>
</ns601:section>