<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>What does JSF/Facelets provide?</title>
    <para>
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Components for view state management and business logic binding</title>
                <para>
                    JSF provides managed or backing beans which
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                             maintain state variables for the view state, i.e. the
                             state of the presentation layer process
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            provide binding to the business logic/services layer
                            with dependency injection of Java EE session beans
                            and web services.                            
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Component model</title>
                <para>
                    The JSF component model is similar to a thick client component model
                    like AWT/Swing. It enables one to use and develop libraries of reusable
                    presentation layer components which support <emphasis>event listening</emphasis> 
                    (e.g. change event listening) and the construction of composite components.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Converters</title>
                <para>
                    JSF supports pluggable custom and user defined converters.
                    Converters provide bi-directional conversion between the strings required
                    in the user interface components and the actual data types used in the
                    objects through which the state of the view is managed (e.g. the conversion
                    between a string entered into a text field and the underlying data
                    object).
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Converters and validators</title>
                <para>
                    JSF supports pluggable custom and user defined validators.
                    Validators validate that the user input satisfies certain
                    constraints (i.e. that a date is in the past or that a
                    entered value is within some range).
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Messaging</title>
                <para>
                    JSF supports a messaging infrastructure which enables one to
                    submit page wide or component-specific messages to a message
                    queue. These messages are ultimately rendered on a page.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>View templates</title>
                <para>
                    JSF suports the specification of page templates and even recursive
                    templates with different components being inserted into the different
                    regions of a template.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Support for bookmarking</title>
                <para>
                    JSF provides managed or backing beans which
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Bookmarkable pages</title>
                <para>
                    In the context of dynamic page construction, bookmarking has always
                    been a challange. JSF provides explicit support for having
                    bookmarkable pages which are still generated through the JSF
                    engine.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Pluggable render kits</title>
                <para>
                    JSF supports pluggable render kits to allow for rendering across devices
                    as well as customized rendering.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Ajax support</title>
                <para>
                    JSF-2 provides support for lightweight dynamic componets via Ajax.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    