<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Ingenuity</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>ingenuity</primary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>innovation</primary><see><indexterm><primary>ingenuity</primary></indexterm></see></indexterm>
        <emphasis>Ingenuity</emphasis> refers to a measure of originality and novelty. This quality
        requirement may refer to
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the originality of the architecture or infrastructure itself,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                or to the architecture providing a suitable infrastructure within which novel solutions can be generated
                (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> an architecture for an organization whose business is innovation).
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Applicability of ingenuity requirements</title>
        <para>
            Originality in the architecture itself is often required either
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    by clients who would like to project a progressive image,
                    (some clients may want to invest in a novel building or innovative piece of equipment (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> 
                    an innovative cell phone, music player, car, ...),
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    or by clients who require a novel infrastructure which is suitable for hosting certain novel services they would like to deploy within
                    that infrastructure.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            Such ingenuity requirements are often required for equipment, buildings and software systems.
        </para>
        
        <para>
            Some organizations see innovation a core to their business. Such organizations (and certain systems whose purpose it is to obtain 
            generate original, non-algorithmic solutions) require an architecture or infrastructure which is suitable for innovation, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>
            architectures which are suited to host processes which generate innovation.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Quantifying ingenuity</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>ingenuity</primary><secondary>quantifying</secondary></indexterm>
            This is another quality attribute which is non-trivial to quantify. The ingenuity requirements for the architecture itself may could potentially
            be specified by
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>specifying the requirements for novel infrastructure elements,</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>specifying novel usage pattern requirements, or</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>specifying novel services which the architecture needs to be able to host.</para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
         </para>   
        <para>
            The ingenuity requirement for infrastructure which need to host services which generate innovation is also non-trivial
            to specify. For example, for organizations which see innovation as one of their core abilities, the ingenuity requirement 
            could be specified by,
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the number of patents which are to be acquired per unit of time,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the number of refereed research papers which should be published per unit time,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    or the number of ingenuity awards (for example, in advertizing) which need to be won per unit of time.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    