<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         version="5.0"
         xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.accessibility.accessibility">
   <title>Accessibility </title>
  <para>
    So far we have used only the two most common accessibility levels, <literal>public</literal> 
    and <literal>private</literal>. Typically
    the data fields were declared private and the services offered to clients of the class were
    declared public.
  </para>
  <para>
    Java supports, however, four accessiblity levels, <literal>private</literal>, 
    <literal>protected</literal>, <literal>public</literal> and the default accessibility level, package scope. They
    are summarised in the following table:
  </para>
  <table>
      <title>Access levels supported by Java</title>
      <tgroup cols="5">
         <thead>
            <row>
               <entry>
                  <para>Access level</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>within instances of same class</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>within instances of classes in same package</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>within instances of sub-classes</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>within any object</para>
               </entry>
            </row>
         </thead>
         <tbody>
            <row>
               <entry>
                  <para>private</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>YES</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>NO</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>NO</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>NO</para>
               </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
               <entry>
                  <para>
                     <emphasis>friendly (package)</emphasis>
                  </para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>YES</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>YES</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>NO</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>NO</para>
               </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
               <entry>
                  <para>protected</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>YES</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>YES</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>YES</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>NO</para>
               </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
               <entry>
                  <para>public</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>YES</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>YES</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>YES</para>
               </entry>
               <entry>
                  <para>YES</para>
               </entry>
            </row>
         </tbody>
      </tgroup>
  </table>
  <para>
    Members which are declared <literal>private</literal> can only be
    accessed from within methods of the class itself.
  </para>
  <para>
    If you omit to specify the accessibility of a class, interface or member (data field or
    method), Java assumes package scope. Elements with package scope can be accessed from
    anywhere in the same package, but from no code which is not encapsulated within a class of
    the same package.
  </para>
  <para>
    The access level <literal>protected</literal> is not at all that
    protected. "Protected" members can be accessed from anywhere in the package or from
    subclasses, irrespective of the package in which they reside. It is often tempting to
    declare data fields protected so that subclasses can access them directly. One should,
    however, minimize the use of protected data fields because they result in an hard binding
    between the implementation of the superclass and that of its subclasses, i.e. any change in
    the <literal>protected</literal> data fields of the superclass can
    potentially require modifications to all subclasses. Methods used for the internal
    functioning of the class can, however, be safely declared <literal>protected</literal>, 
    giving access to some of the internal mechanics to
    subclass developers, but not to developers of client classes.
  </para>
  <para>
    Finally, the <literal>public</literal> scope is used to declare any
    class, interface or member which should be generally accessible. 
    The <literal>public</literal> interface is what the client typically sees. 
  </para>
</section>