<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    version="5.0">
    <title>Why should one not create threads within code executed within an application server?</title>    
    <para>
        Of course, instead of making an asynchronous request via a message quiew or via some other asynchronous support infrastructure,
        one could simple create a new thread and make the request from that newly spawned thread. This is, however, not allowed
        in code running within application servers.
    </para>
    <para>
        The reasons why one should not create threads within code running in an application server are mainly three: resource management, security
        and issues around thread-specific storage:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Resource management</title>
                    <para>
                        If a thread creates its own threads then it interferes with the resource management task of the application server.
                        The application server manages processing resources by controlling the execution threads.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>      
            </listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Security</title>
                <para>
                    When threads are spawned by users, it is difficult for the application server to protect itself from an effective
                    (often unintentional) denial-of service attack, where accidently the creation of a large number of threads
                    brings down the services offered by the application server.
                </para>
            </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Thread-specific storage issues</title>
                <para>
                    Application servers often use thread specific storage to propagate metadata with the request. This could include things
                    like your session and transactions contexts, user principal and roles and so on.  This vital information would not be
                    available to threads spawned by the user.
                </para>
            </formalpara>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        
    </para>
</section>
