<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    xml:id="components.technologies.www.http.response.1xxInformational.1xxInformational">
        <title>Informational - 1xx</title>
        <para>
             This class of status code indicates a provisional response, consisting only of the Status-Line 
             and optional headers, and is terminated by an empty line. There are no required headers for this 
             class of status code. Since HTTP/1.0 did not define any 1xx status codes, servers must not send 
             a 1xx response to an HTTP/1.0 client.
        </para>
        <para>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>100 Continue</title>
                        <para>
                             The client should continue with its request. This interim response is used to inform 
                             the client that the initial part of the request has been received and has not yet been 
                             rejected by the server. The client should continue by sending the remainder of the request 
                             or, if the request has already been completed, ignore this response. The server must send 
                             a final response after the request has been completed.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>101 Switching Protocols</title>
                        <para>
                             The server understands and is willing to comply with the client's request, via the Upgrade message 
                             header field, for a change in the application protocol being used on this connection. The server 
                             will switch protocols to those defined by the response's Upgrade header field immediately after 
                             the empty line which terminates the 101 response. The protocol should be switched only when it is 
                             advantageous to do so. For example, switching to a newer version of HTTP is advantageous over 
                             older versions, and switching to a real-time, synchronous protocol might be advantageous when delivering 
                             resources that use such features. 
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>            
        </para>
</section>
