<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Risk mitigation</title>


    <para> Risk mitigation strategies are used to either <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para> reduce the probability of the risk event occurring, or </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> reduce the impact of a risk event. </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Mitigating technology risk</title>
        <para> At times, one is uncertain whether a technology can fulfill the requirements or not.
            The following strategies are some strategies which can be employed to mitigate against
            technology risk, <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Prototyping</title>
                        <para> The most common approach to mitigating technology risk is to first
                            build a low-cost <emphasis>proof of concept</emphasis>. This reduces the
                            actual impact of the risk event (the loss incurred), should the
                            technology prove not to be suited for the project. </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Active concurrency</title>
                        <para> In the context of tight deadlines the performing organization may
                            concurrently build prototypes in competing technologies. </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Mitigating product risks</title>
        <para> In order to reduce the risk that one does not meet the client's needs or expectations
            one typically <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> use case based incremental and iterative product realization and
                        deployment, and </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> testing quality requirements (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> scalability,
                        performance, reliability, usability, security, ...) early in the project,
                    </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Mitigating estimation risks</title>
        <para> In order to mitigate estimation risk one typically <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> uses multiple, independent estimation approaches (for example, comparing
                        the results obtained with experts based estimation against those obtained
                        from a parametric approach like use case points estimation), </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> comparing estimation results with historic performance, and </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> inspection of estimation results by independent domain experts. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Mitigating scope risk</title>
        <para> Scope risk including the risk of scope creep and the risk of more substantial change
            requests usually present a major risk for software development projects. <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Change management</title>
                        <para> The standard strategy for mitigating against scope risk is the
                            introduction of well defined change management processes which update
                            estimates and cost on change requests. </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Iterative and incremental software development processes can assist to
                        mitigate scope risk, particularly if estimation and pricing is done per
                        iteration and not for th product as a whole. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Mitigating quality risks</title>
        <para> Strategies commonly used to mitigate against quality risk include <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> contracts based approach across levels of granularity, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> unit testing across levels of granularity, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> peer reviews, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> testing of both, functional and non-functional requirements, and </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> user (beta) testing. </para>
                </listitem>

            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Mitigating skills risk</title>
        <para> Strategies used to mitigate skills risk include <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> providing competitive renumeration, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> giving core skills resources a stake in the organization, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> providing an environment for professional and personal growth, 
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> relying on standard skills resources which can be readily obtained in the
                        market, and</para>
                </listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                very importantly to inspire the team.
            </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Mitigating sub-contractor risks</title>
        <para> The risk of the project being affected by a sub-contractor not meeting its
            obligations can be mitigated by introducing <emphasis>penalty clauses</emphasis>. These
            provide <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> an incentive for service providers to adhere to their contractual
                        obligations, and </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> partial or full financial compensation for any losses incurred by the
                        performing organization due to the breach of services contract. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Mitigating unidentified risks</title>
        <para> In order to mitigate against unidentified risks, one usually introduces a contingency
            in the estimates. The size of the contingency should typically be based on past
            experience. </para>
    </section>
</section>
