<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Spaciousness and compactness</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>spaciousness</primary></indexterm>
        Spaciousness refers to a qualities of either
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                having physical space or that of
                <indexterm><primary>spaciousness</primary><secondary>physical</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                generating a perception of having space in the users of the work product.
                <indexterm><primary>spaciousness</primary><secondary>perception of</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        Typically one also needs to differentiate between used and usable space.
        <indexterm><primary>space</primary><secondary>used</secondary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>space</primary><secondary>usable</secondary></indexterm>
    </para>    
    <para>
        Compactness, on the other hand, refers to an architecture which uses space very efficiently.
        <indexterm><primary>compactness</primary><seealso><indexterm><primary>spaciousness</primary></indexterm></seealso></indexterm>
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Factors affecting perceived spaciousness</title>
        <para>
            Perceived spaciousness is influenced by 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the amount and shape of the physical space available,  
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the lighting and acoustic characteristics (including reflextion characteristics, noise levels, ...), and
                    <indexterm><primary>lighting</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>acoustics</primary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the amount of detail or clutter within the infrastructure,
                    <indexterm><primary>clutter</primary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the interfaces to bordering elements (including the "oppenness").
                    <indexterm><primary>interfaces</primary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Applicability of spaciousness and compactness</title>
        <para>
            Spaciousness and compactness are common quality requirements for work products for which space is relevant like, for example,
            buildings, parks, rooms, and vehicles.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Quantifying spaciousness</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>spaciousness</primary><secondary>quantifying</secondary></indexterm>
            Spaviousness or compactness are typically specified by specifying
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    lower or upper bounds for the space consumption/availability of the architecture of the work product
                    as a whole or for core components of the architecture,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    seating capacities, desk capacities, leg room, ...
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    upper bounds for level of cluttering.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <para>
            Perceived spaciousness is more difficult to quantify. Often one specifies the strategies which should be used to
            enhance perceived spaciousness.
        </para>
        <note><para>
            This is a very important quality requirement for concert halls. Various domain specific metrics for spaciousness in
            concert halls are used by architects and sound engineers.
        </para></note>
    </section>
</section>            