<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Why UML Profiles?</title>
    <para>
        UML is a generic, domain neutral modeling language which provides a rich set of diagrams in order to 
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                make it easier for humans to construct a model through the drawing of diagrams,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                communicate selective aspects of a model via a diagram.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        The model could be, for example, a business model, a model for a software system or a model for a
        hardware system.
    </para>
    <para>
        Not only is the Unified Modeling Languages domain neutral, but it is also independent of the analysis and design methodology used to build
        and maintain the model.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Extending UML for specific implementation domains</title>
        <para>
            When applying the language to specific domains it is useful to extend the language with domain specific concepts. 
            For example, when mapping onto manual processes one may want to introduce concepts like 
            <emphasis>worker</emphasis>, <emphasis>document, </emphasis><emphasis>work unit</emphasis> 
            or <emphasis>manager</emphasis>.
        </para>
        <para>
            Alternatively, when looking at the platform specific model meant to show the implementation mapping onto a Enterprise
            Java Beans based implementation, then one may want to introduce concepts like <emphasis>session bean</emphasis>,
            <emphasis>message driven bean</emphasis>, <emphasis>queue</emphasis>, <emphasis>topic</emphasis>,
            <emphasis>entity object</emphasis> and so on.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Extending UML with concepts specific to an analysis and design methodology</title>
        <para>
            If one uses a particular analysis and design methodology, one usually will generate a specific sequence of diagrams
            which have particular meaning within that methodology and model elements will often have a particular meaning
            with respect to the analysis and design methodology. Profiles
            are generally used to introduce the semantics which provide the different diagrams and model elements
            meaning with respect to a particular methodology.
        </para>
        <para>
            Profiles introducing the semantics of a particular methodology to UML are particularly useful for documentation generation
            and model validation. Additionally, the richer set of semantics and the resultant more rigid model (often a model generated
            from a particular methodology has a particular structure) may simplify the implementation mapping.
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    
