<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         version="5.0"
         xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.referenceArchitectures.servicesOriented.esb.routing">

  <title>Service routing</title>
  <para>
     In  a SOA a service is not requested from a service provider, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> SOAs do
     not use point-to-point integration. Instead a service is requested from a services bus which
     routes the service request to an actual service provider.
  </para>
  <para>
    ESBs typically implement one or more of the following 
    <itemizedlist>
         <listitem>
            <formalpara>
               <title>Queue routing</title>
               <para>
          In the case of queue routing all messages sent to a particular queue 
          (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> JMS queue) are routed to a particular
          service provider.
        </para>
            </formalpara>
         </listitem>
         <listitem>
            <formalpara>
               <title>Content-based routing</title>
               <para>
          The message content is used by the services bus to decide where
          to route the message to. 
        </para>
            </formalpara>
         </listitem>
         <listitem>
            <formalpara>
               <title>Service execution</title>
               <para>
          This facilitates that a service can request a service directly from an
          end-point. It is a form of point-to-point messaging.
        </para>
            </formalpara>
         </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
  </para>

  <section>
      <title>Benefits of content-based routing</title>
      <para>
       Services-oriented architectures use XML
       as the message protocol and hence the routing depends on the
       XML content of the message. Content based routing enables end-points
       to dynamically route messages -- <emphasis>no centralised integration
       broker is required</emphasis>.
    </para>
      <para>
      A further benefit is that one can assemble business processes which vary
      depending on the content of a message. For example, consider a bus
      receives an order for delivery at a particular location. Content based
      routing can extract the delivery address from the order message and
      may dispatch the order to a warehouse nearest to the delivery address.
    </para>
  </section>
  
</section>