<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Estimation approaches</title>
    
    <para>
        A number of widely varying estimation approaches have been developed over the years. Some may be more suitable in
        certain situations while other situations may require a different approach to successful estimation.
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Estimation by analogue</title>
        <para>
            Estimation by analogue is an expert judgement based approach which identifies similar projects or 
            activities which were performed in the past and aims to
            generate an estimate by comparing the similarities and analyzing the differences. 
        </para>
        
        <section>
            <title>Course grained estimation by analogue</title>
            <para>
                Estimation by analogue can be done at a very high/coarse grained level (even with a single project wide estimate).
                This is sometimes referred to as <emphasis>gross comparison</emphasis>.
            </para>
            <para>
                The estimate is adjusted with relative project complexity, relative team composition. The answers can be expected 
                correct within about an order of magnitude. The method is useful to obtain a quick order of magnitude estimate
                which can be used during initial vision formulation and also to perform sanity checks on estimates obtained via
                other, more accurate, methods.
            </para>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Bottom-up estimation</title>
            <para>
                Bottom-up estimation first obtains estimates for low level work packages. These are then added up across
                the work breakdown structure. The estimates of higher level work activities include the work required to 
                integrate the lower level components.
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>
    
    <section>

        <title>Parametric methods</title>
        <para>
            Parametric methods, like estimation by analogue, base the estimation on past experience. But, while estimation by analogue
            does so directly, the model parameters of parametric methods are statistically fitted via regression analysis
            to reproduce historic performance.  
        </para>
        
        <para>
            Two well known parametric estimation methods is the historically used <emphasis>function points analysis</emphasis> 
            and the more modern <emphasis>use case points analysis</emphasis>. 
            The advantage of the use case points analysis is that it can be more readily done from use-case
            based requirements and the estimation results can be tied more directly to stake holder value.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Estimation based on market pricing</title>
        <para>
            Other estimation approaches aim to assess the project cost from the market pricing for the work required to execute the
            project. One of these is <emphasis>vendor bid analysis</emphasis> which analyses competing vendor bids for a project.
        </para>
    </section>

</section>    