<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         version="5.0"
         xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.referenceArchitectures.j2ee.javaEeAndSoa.javaEeAndSoa">
  <title>Java EE and SOA</title>
  <para>
    Java EE is the most widely used reference architecture for enterprise systems based on the
    layered architectual pattern. It provides the basis for multi-tiered enterprise systems and is
    particularly useful for interactive systems. 
  </para>
  <para>
    Another widely used reference architecture for enterprise systems is the Services Oriented
    Architecture (SOA). The Java community has provided a standard API specification for 
    SOA based systems, the <emphasis>Java Business Integration</emphasis> (JPI) specification.
  </para>
  <para>
    JBI (and SOA in general) provides an infrastructure for
    <itemizedlist>
         <listitem>
            <para>
        defining, maintaining and executing business processes defined across enterprise systems,
      </para>
         </listitem>
         <listitem>
            <para>
        decoupling enterprise systems such that they just provide services to or
        request services from the enterprise bus.
      </para>
         </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
  </para>
  <para>
    SOA is not meant to replace Java EE. It does not provide an infrastructure for effectively
    hosting business logic and does not provide a presentation layer. The individual systems
    integrated through the enterprise bus may very often be based on the Java EE architecture.
  </para>
  <para>
    Java EE is, however, arguably the best environment available to <emphasis>host</emphasis> the
    services which are integrated and orchestrated by the SOA infrastructure.
  </para>
</section>