<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns0:section xmlns:ns0="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="components.technologies.java.j2ee.common.work.workManager">
  <ns1:title xmlns:ns1="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Work and work managers</ns1:title>
  <ns2:para xmlns:ns2="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    In a managed environment such as an EJB- or Web container, the deployed components are 
    not allowed to start new threads as part of the application logic, as that would interfere with 
    the container's capability to effectively manage them. Instead, one can submit work requests
    for execution within the managed environment.
  </ns2:para>
  
  <ns3:section xmlns:ns3="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns4:title xmlns:ns4="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Work</ns4:title>
    <ns5:para xmlns:ns5="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      A work request is a sequence of tasks which will be executed within the context of a thread.
      Every unit of work is <ns6:emphasis xmlns:ns6="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">runnable</ns6:emphasis> and will be executed within a thread
      managed by the application server.
      <ns7:programlisting xmlns:ns7="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
package commonj.work;
        
public interface Work extends Runnable
{
  public boolean isDaemon();
        
  public void release();
}
        </ns7:programlisting>
    </ns5:para>
    <ns8:para xmlns:ns8="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      In addition, a work unit can be released by the application server, requesting the thread to
      terminate. This usually sets a flag which is periodically checked within the
      <ns9:literal xmlns:ns9="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">run()</ns9:literal> method and, if set, the thread should terminate (exit the
      <ns10:literal xmlns:ns10="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">run()</ns10:literal> method).
    </ns8:para>
  </ns3:section>
  
  <ns11:section xmlns:ns11="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns12:title xmlns:ns12="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Work managers</ns12:title>
    <ns13:para xmlns:ns13="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Work managers are used to submit work requests to the managed environment. They support
      <ns14:itemizedlist xmlns:ns14="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns15:listitem xmlns:ns15="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns16:para xmlns:ns16="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          scheduling work units with or without work listeners which are informed about the status
          of a submitted task (submitted, accepted, rejected or completed),
        </ns16:para></ns15:listitem>
        <ns17:listitem xmlns:ns17="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns18:para xmlns:ns18="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          synchronization points which will block the completion of the work unit until certain work
          items have been completed.
        </ns18:para></ns17:listitem>
      </ns14:itemizedlist>
      The Work manager contract looks as follows
      <ns19:programlisting xmlns:ns19="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
package commonj.work;
        
public interface WorkManager
{
    WorkItem schedule(Work work);
        
    WorkItem schedule(Work work, WorkListener wl);
        
    boolean waitForAll
          (java.util.Collection workItems, long timeout_ms);
        
    java.util.Collection waitForAny
          (java.util.Collection workItems, long timeout_ms);
}        
    </ns19:programlisting>
    with work items being pollable result objects hose status can be queried
      <ns20:programlisting xmlns:ns20="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
package commonj.work;
        
public interface WorkItem
{
    public int getStatus();

    public  Work getResult();
}        
    </ns20:programlisting>
where the result is the completed work request.
    </ns13:para>
    
  </ns11:section>
</ns0:section>