<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title role="Java's security support">Java's Security Support</title>
    <para> Java has sophisticated, fine-grained support for
        security on nearly all conceivable fronts. It provides the means to ensure <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Confidentiality</title>
                    <para>of transferred information via encryption.</para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Integrity</title>
                    <para>of transferred information via message digestion.</para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Authentication</title>
                    <para> via digitally signed certificates generated using
                        private keys and decoded via public keys. </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Fine grained Access Control</title>
                    <para> to any protected resources via permissions.</para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Non-repudiation</title>
                    <para> with digital signatures.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        These security features are applied accordingly throughout all the (especially networked) Java frameworks,
        such as Java WebStart, Java Applets, Java EE, etc. They, together with the containment provided by the
        Java Runtime Environment, means that to date no general-purpose virii, <quote>worms</quote>, or malicious
        software has ever been successfully written and distributed through Java. Though claims of a virus implemented
        in Java do appear from time to time, upon closer inspection, they inevitably function only when the user <emphasis>explicitly
        runs</emphasis> them, and in an environment where the user explicitly allows these programs access to the areas which they
        attempt to compromise. (i.e. not in a typical Java Sandbox environment).
    </para>
</section>
