<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    
    <title>Consequences</title>
    <para>
        
        <itemizedlist>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Provides encapsulated snapshot</title>
                <para>
                    The memento stores a snapshot of the originator's state information,
                    providing access only to instances of the originator class.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Originator need not maintain snapshots</title>
                <para>
                    In many other designs which capture the state of an object at some instant in time
                    without breaking encapsulation,
                    the onus of maintaining the captured state information is with the originator itself.
                    The memento enables one to externalize an object's state and delegate the maintenance
                    of the state snapshots to a caretaker without breaking encapsulation. This may simplify
                    the originator class considerably.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Support for multiple snapshots</title>
                <para>
                    The memento pattern enables different clients to request multiple snapshots
                    from the same object and to restore the state of the originator to any of the
                    snapshots. This flexibility is difficult to achieve if the originator has to maintain
                    the state snapshots.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>The memento may become large</title>
                <para>
                    If the originator's state comprises a lot of information the memento may become large.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Duplication of information across mementos</title>
                <para>
                    if snapshots are taken frequently and then typically only a certain subset of the originator's
                    state changes across the snapshots. A memento, however,typically stores a representation
                    of the entire state information of the originator. This may consume considerably more
                    information then one would if one only stores the delta's (differences) between the object's
                    state.
                    <note><para>
                        Versioning systems like CVS typically use a delta approach, storing the originator's state
                        at some time and all incremental changes done along that branch.
                    </para></note>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Implementing memento with encapsulation may be difficult in some languages</title>
                <para>
                    In Java one can use private static nested or private inner classes to ensure that only the
                    originator is able to access the memento's information. In C++ one can use the
                    <emphasis>friend</emphasis> construct to give the originator access to the private
                    members of the originator. In some languages neither construct may be available and
                    implementing the encapsulation may prove a challenge.
                    <note><para>
                        Private static nested or private inner classes provide a cleaner solution than friendship
                        because the originator is still forced to access the information stored in the memento
                        through public services which can apply normal sanity checking. These public
                        services are, however, only available to the originator.
                    </para></note>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
        </itemizedlist>
        
    </para>
    
</section>
