<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>The Business Process Execution Engine (BPEE)</title>
    <para>
        The business process execution engine executes business processes defined for services. It takes a business
        process specification through the process of executing the business process across lower level services,
        routing and transformations.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Languages used to specify business processes</title>
        <para>
            Business processes may be specified in a number of languages. Usually business analysts
            use a diagramatic language like UML or BPMN to specify business processes. These can be
            executed directly by a business process execution engine, or they may be compiled into
            a standard lower level language like the <emphasis>Business Process Execution Language</emphasis>
            (BPEL), <emphasis>Business Process Modeling Language</emphasis> (BPML) or one of a number
            of proprietary or vendor specific business process execution languages. The BPEE loads the
            business process definition as provided in one of the business process execution languages 
            and executes it.
            <note><para>
                For certain services the business processes may be encoded in a programming language like Java
                or C#. In such cases the run-time environment for these software artifacts acts as a BPEE.
            </para></note>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Maintaining the state of a business process</title>
        <para>
            The BPEE engine is responsible for maintaining the state of a business process and for
            correlating responses with requests.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Manual work flow steps</title>
        <para>
            A BPEE engine typically alows for certain work flow steps to be executed manually, In this case
            the BPEE submits a request through some portal for manual processing and receives the deliverables
            through some other portal.
        </para>        
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Long running business processes</title>
        <para>
            Some business processes may run for a very long time (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> for several months.
            BPEEs have explicit support for long-running business processes.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Compensation</title>
        <para>
            Since business processes may be long-running, the default approach to maintaining environmental integrity
            is through compensating processes and not through transactions which require resource locking and result
            in the transaction being either committed or rolled back.
        </para>
        <para>
            The approach is thus to define for each work flow a compensating work flow which effectively undoes the
            original work flow. Upon reaching an unhandled error or exception, the BPEE rolls back the business process
            for the work flow by executing the corresponding compendating work flows.
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>        