<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Spreading load across time</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>load</primary><secondary>spread across time</secondary></indexterm>
        In order to be able to process higher load one commonly spreads load across time. The aim is to 
        shift peak demand into periods of lower demand. Strategies commonly used to achieve this include
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                queueing,
                <indexterm><primary>queueing</primary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                scheduling and
                <indexterm><primary>scheduling</primary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                pre-processing.
                <indexterm><primary>preprocessing</primary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Queueing</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>queueing</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>queue</primary></indexterm>
            A queue is able to absorb demand peaks and spread the processing of the demand peak across time.
            <indexterm><primary>load</primary><secondary>spread across time</secondary></indexterm>
            This evens out resource load across time, of course at the expense of performance.
            <indexterm><primary>performance</primary></indexterm>
        </para>
        <para>
            For example, if the clients who wish to process sales exceed the number of cashiers available in a shop,
            the clients are not sent home. Instead they are fed into a FIFO (first-in first-out) queue which spreads
            <indexterm>
                <primary>FIFO</primary>
                <see><indexterm><primary>queue</primary></indexterm></see>
            </indexterm>
            the transactions across time.
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Scheduling</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>scheduling</primary></indexterm>
            Scheduling is used to distribute known demand across time (and resources). This results in planned resource
            demand.
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Use concurrencies</title>
        <para>
            In order to spread resource usage across time one can use concurrent resource consumption. While
            one process or thread is waiting for certain resources, another process or thread can go ahead and
            use other resources in the mean time.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Pre-processing</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>preprocessing</primary></indexterm>
            In the case of pre-processing one performs work activities which will be required for work which
            is anticipated for the future.
        </para>
        <para>
            For example, a manufacturing plant could, in times of low demand, produce excess which is stock piled.
            <indexterm><primary>stock-piling</primary></indexterm>
            <emphasis>Stock piling</emphasis> enables the manufacturer to handle demand peaks.
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    