<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns6923:section xmlns:ns6923="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.javadoc.tags.referenceTags">
  <ns6924:title xmlns:ns6924="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Reference Tags</ns6924:title>
  <ns6925:para xmlns:ns6925="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Javadoc supports both in-line and grouped references. In-line references are similar to
    standard html <ns6926:literal xmlns:ns6926="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">href</ns6926:literal> tags. In fact, a <ns6927:literal xmlns:ns6927="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">{@link}</ns6927:literal> tab is 
    directly mapped onto an HTML reference.  The syntax is
    <ns6928:programlisting xmlns:ns6928="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
{@link packageName.ClassName#memberName label}
   </ns6928:programlisting>
   and is mapped onto
   <ns6929:programlisting xmlns:ns6929="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
&lt;a href="/packageName/ClassName#member"&gt; label &lt;/a&gt;
  </ns6929:programlisting> 
  </ns6925:para>
  <ns6930:para xmlns:ns6930="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    For example,
    <ns6931:programlisting xmlns:ns6931="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 /** The method uses the
   * {@link fritzSolms.Math.RootSolvers#newtonRaphson(double,double)
   * Netwon-Raphson method} to find the root of ...
   */
   </ns6931:programlisting>
   is  mapped onto
   <ns6932:programlisting xmlns:ns6932="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 The method uses the &lt;a href="fritzSolms/Math/RootSolvers#newtonRaphson"&gt;
 Netwon-Raphson method&lt;/a&gt; to find the root of ...  
   </ns6932:programlisting>
  </ns6930:para>  
  <ns6933:para xmlns:ns6933="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    In-line references can also refer to standard URLs:
    <ns6934:programlisting xmlns:ns6934="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 This class is an exercise for the &lt;i&gt;Advanced Java&lt;/i&gt; course offered by
 the {@link "zeus.rau.ac.za/scschoolscschool.html" International School for
 Scientific computing}
   </ns6934:programlisting>
   but generally one should rather stick to the stnadrd HTML tag in this case.</ns6933:para>
   <ns6935:para xmlns:ns6935="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The <ns6936:literal xmlns:ns6936="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">@see</ns6936:literal> tag is similar to the <ns6937:literal xmlns:ns6937="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">{@link}</ns6937:literal> tag, 
     except that the link will be placed under the See
     Also heading. A document may contain many <ns6938:literal xmlns:ns6938="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">@see</ns6938:literal> tags
     resulting in many entries under that heading. For example
     <ns6939:programlisting xmlns:ns6939="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
The method uses the Netwon-Raphson method to find the root of ...
@see "Numerical Methods Course Notes"
@see fritzSolms.Math.RootSolvers#newtonRaphson Newton Raphson
@see &lt;a href="MathBooks.com/Numerical"&gt;Numerical Mathematics Books&lt;/a&gt;
     </ns6939:programlisting>
   </ns6935:para>  
   <ns6940:para xmlns:ns6940="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        The first tag simply puts the string “Numerical Methods Course Notes" under the
        See Also heading. The second tag adds the string “Newton Raphson" under the
        heading and makes this text a link to the java documentation for the<ns6941:literal xmlns:ns6941="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">newtonRaphson()</ns6941:literal> method of the <ns6942:literal xmlns:ns6942="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">RootSolvers</ns6942:literal> class. Finally the last tag is a standard HTML link
        placed under the See Also heading.
   </ns6940:para>
</ns6923:section>