<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns832:section xmlns:ns832="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="java_2_collection_algorithms">    
      <ns833:title xmlns:ns833="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Algorithms</ns833:title>
      <ns834:para xmlns:ns834="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The algorithms are generic operations that can be applied to a variety of collections.
        The algorithms are stable and fast.</ns834:para>
      <ns835:para xmlns:ns835="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">They are methods which perform useful computations, like searching and sorting, on
        objects that implement collection interfaces. These algorithms are polymorphic because the
        same method can be used on many different implementations of the appropriate collections interface.</ns835:para>
      <ns836:para xmlns:ns836="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Most of the algorithms operate on lists, i.e. on collections like <ns837:literal xmlns:ns837="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">ArrayList</ns837:literal> and<ns838:literal xmlns:ns838="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">LinkedList</ns838:literal>
        which implement the <ns839:literal xmlns:ns839="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">List</ns839:literal> interface. These include
        searching, sorting, copying, shuﬄing, filling a list with a specific object and
        reversing the order of the elements. Other algorithms operate on all <ns840:literal xmlns:ns840="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Collection</ns840:literal>s. These include finding the maximum or minimum
        element of a collection in either natural order or according to an ordering specified by a comparator.</ns836:para>
      <ns841:para xmlns:ns841="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The algorithms are packages as class services (static methods) within a utility class,
        Collections which cannot be instantiated. The algorithms are self explanatory. To
        illustrate them consider the following method which receives a <ns842:literal xmlns:ns842="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">List</ns842:literal> as argument, makes a copy, sorts the copy in natural order
        and returns the copy:</ns841:para>
      <ns843:para xmlns:ns843="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"/>
      <ns844:para xmlns:ns844="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          <ns845:programlisting xmlns:ns845="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 import java.util.*;
 
 class TestCollections
 {
   public static void main(String[] args)
   {
     LinkedList list = new LinkedList();
     list.add("Peter");
     list.add("Sibusiso");
     list.add("Pieter");
     list.add("Clare");
     list.add("Pat");
 
     System.out.println(list);
 
     Collections.sort(list);
 
     System.out.println(list);
 
     System.out.print("Pieter is ion position "
                       + Collections.binarySearch(list, "Pieter"));
   }
 }          
          </ns845:programlisting>
      </ns844:para>
    </ns832:section>