<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za  -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Business Intelligence</title>
    <para>
        Business intelligence is used for business decision support around strategic management, marketing
        and optimization of the organization's operations.
    </para>
    <para>
        An SOE provides the infrastructure and in particular the underlying SOA systems infrastructure makes it easier
        to collect metadata around service and resource usage and can make this information as well as reports based
        on this information available in real time.
        In particular, they facilitate the real-time calculation of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the organization.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Data warehousing</title>
        <para>
            Traditionally business intelligence has been created around data warehousing. This makes a range of raw and
            processed information retrieved from Business Processs Management (BPM) Systems, Enterprise Resource
            Planning (ERP) systems available for analysis and reporting purposes.
        </para>
        <para>
            The information is typically processed by managers using Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) tools.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Knowledge repositories</title>
        <para>
            As society makes the transition from an information age to a knowledge age, the systems themselves will
            not only feed data into a data warehousing system, but will contextualize any information with meaningful
            (semantic) metadata, obtained through the understanding of the business processes themselves, 
            <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> the systems themselves will actively contribute to the knowledge
            growth within the organization.
        </para>
        <para>
            This will not only significantly increase the value which can be obtained from the business intelligence
            support, but will make it simpler to automate core business decisions themselves. A semantic knowledge
            repository provides not only significantly richer and contextualized data, it also provides an environment
            facilitating automated semantic reasoning and real-time systems-based innovation.
        </para>
    </section>    
</section>
