<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Aesthetics</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>aesthetics</primary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>beauty</primary><see><indexterm><primary>aesthetics</primary></indexterm></see></indexterm>
        Aesthetics is a measure of beauty. It is related to generating a pleasant sensation within the user.
    </para>
    <para>
        One view is that certain aspects of aesthetics are not culture or period bound. Beautiful buildings like the Taj Mahal,
        the Sydney Opera House, and even the Battersea Power Station all have aesthetic qualities which are 
        typically found aesthetically pleasing across cultures.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Contextualizing aesthetics</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>aesthetics</primary><secondary>contextualizing</secondary></indexterm>
            Nevertheless, aesthetics is certainly influenced by context.
            The Taj Mahal would most probably not look aesthetically pleasing in either
            a traditional German village or on Manhattan island. Similarly, a modern 
            metal and glass cabinet would most probably not look good in a log cabin.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Accessibility of aesthetics</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>aesthetics</primary><secondary>accessibility of</secondary></indexterm>
            Also, the accessibility of the aesthetics 
            may differ significantly for people of different background. For example, a spanish guitarist may find
            it considerably more difficult to appreciate the aesthetics of traditional Indian music. Similarly,
            a youngster from New York enjoying Rap music may require some time before being able to appreciate
            the beauty of Sibelius's violin concerto.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Life expectancy of aesthetics</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>aesthetics</primary><secondary>life expectancy of</secondary></indexterm>
            Some things look beautiful for a while, but the beauty does not last. For example, many car designs do not age well.
            Cars which looked aesthetically pleasing when they were initially sold loose the aesthetic appeal over time.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Applicability of aesthetics</title>    
        <para>
            Aesthetics is a quality attribute which is often required for buildings, parks, or 
            equipment like cars or music players, kitchen machines like fridges, toasters, ... 
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Quantifying aesthetics</title>
        <para>
            Attempts with varying, but limited, success have been made to identify universal measures for aesthetics
            and to use these to try and quantify aesthetics.
            It is generally accepted that clean lines and simplicity are required for
            aesthetics.  Aesthetic, nevertheless, remains one of the most difficult
            quality attributes to quantify. 
        </para>
        <para>
            To make some attempt in quantifying aesthetics, one may wish to specify
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the context within which it should be regarded as aesthetically beautiful, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the accessibility of the aesthetics for different user groups,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the required life expectancy of the aesthetic values (it may be sufficient for a car manufacturer, that a
                    particular model looks only beautiful for a certain period of time),
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    as well as any specific strategies which should be for realizing the aesthetics
                    <indexterm><primary>aesthetics</primary><secondary>strategies for</secondary></indexterm>
                    (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> colour combinations, diagonal lines, ...).
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
</section>            