<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns3010:section xmlns:ns3010="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    
    <ns3011:title xmlns:ns3011="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Callback Handlers</ns3011:title>

<ns3012:para xmlns:ns3012="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">An application implements a CallbackHandler and passes it to underlying 
security services so that they may interact with the application to 
retrieve specific authentication data, such as user names and passwords, 
    or to display certain information, such as error and warning messages. </ns3012:para>

<ns3013:para xmlns:ns3013="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">CallbackHandlers are implemented in an application-dependent fashion. 
For example, implementations for an application with a graphical user 
interface (GUI) may pop up windows to prompt for requested information 
or to display error messages. An implementation may also choose to 
obtain requested information from an alternate source without asking 
the end user. </ns3013:para>

<ns3014:para xmlns:ns3014="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Underlying security services make requests for different types of 
information by passing individual Callbacks to the CallbackHandler. 
The CallbackHandler implementation decides how to retrieve and display 
information depending on the Callbacks passed to it. For example, if the 
underlying service needs a user name and password to authenticate a user, 
it uses a NameCallback and PasswordCallback. The CallbackHandler can then 
choose to prompt for a user name and password serially, or to prompt for 
both in a single window.</ns3014:para>
    
</ns3010:section>