<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
  xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.generics.examples.resourcePool.resourcePool">
    <title>Example: A generic resource pool</title>
    <para>
        As an example,let us look at a resource pool where each resource component should at any
        time be used by only one user. This could be a pool of database connections, a pool of
        connections to messaging services or a pool used by JCA adapters for connecting to
        servers supporting proprietary protocols, or simply object or thread pools. 
    </para>
    <para>
        However, we do not want to define pool classes for all different types of resources. We also want to have the pool type
        safe, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> that we can only put the correct type of resource objects into a
        particular pool. This removes the necessity for type validation and casting of the objects received from the pool.
    </para>
    <para>
        The pool will have to create new instances of the template type upon increasing the pool
        size. Since we cannot use constructors to create instances of the parameter types, we have
        to look at cloning, effectively using the prototype pattern.
        <note><para>
            To this end developers of the resource class must make certain that the clone method is
            implemented in such a way that it creates new, functionally equivalent resources. For
            example, the clone of a database connection must be a separate connection through which
            database queries can be made.
        </para></note>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>The prototype interface</title>
        <para>
            <programlisting language="Java">
<xi:include parse="text" href="source/Prototype.java"/>                
            </programlisting>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>The resource pool contract</title>
        <para>
            <programlisting language="Java">
                <xi:include parse="text" href="source/ResourcePool.java"/>                
            </programlisting>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>An implementation for a basic resource pool</title>
        <para>
            <programlisting language="Java">
<xi:include parse="text" href="source/BasicResourcePool.java"/>                
            </programlisting>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Using the basic resource pool</title>
        <para>
            <programlisting language="Java">
<xi:include parse="text" href="source/ResourcePoolTest.java"/>                
            </programlisting>
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>    