<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.2/docbookx.dtd"--><ns2539:section xmlns:ns2539="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2ee.ejb.introduction.relevanceOfJ2eeApis">

  <ns2540:title xmlns:ns2540="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Relevance of J2EE APIs to Enterprise Java Beans</ns2540:title>
  <ns2541:para xmlns:ns2541="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Many of the J2EE APIs have a direct relevance when developing or using
    Enterprise Java Beans.
  </ns2541:para>
  
  <ns2542:section xmlns:ns2542="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns2543:title xmlns:ns2543="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Web Containers and EJB Application Servers</ns2543:title>
    <ns2544:para xmlns:ns2544="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Many EJB application servers come standardly packaged with both, an EJB container
      for the business logic components and a web container for web-based presentation layer
      components. JBoss itself can be downloaded within a package which hosts both, the JBoss
      application server and a servlet container (typically TomCat or Jerry). In some
      of these (<ns2545:abbrev xmlns:ns2545="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">e.g.</ns2545:abbrev> JBoss with Jerry), the web and EJB containers run within 
      the same Java   virtual machine.
    </ns2544:para>
  </ns2542:section>

  <ns2546:section xmlns:ns2546="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns2547:title xmlns:ns2547="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Web Services Supplied by Enterprise Java Beans</ns2547:title>
    <ns2548:para xmlns:ns2548="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      EJB application servers are typically expected to process Web-Services based
      service requests. Many application servers offer frameworks which automate the
      publishing of EJB-based services as web services. JBoss provides to this end JBoss.Net
      which automates the web-service generation across the Apache Axis Web Services
      framework. However, axis can be easily replaced by JAX-RPC.
    </ns2548:para>
    <ns2549:para xmlns:ns2549="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Furthermore, enterprise beans may advertise the services they offer in technologies
      provided by the web services standards (UDDI in particular).
    </ns2549:para>
  </ns2546:section>
  
  <ns2550:section xmlns:ns2550="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns2551:title xmlns:ns2551="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JDBC and Enterprise Java Beans</ns2551:title>
    <ns2552:para xmlns:ns2552="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Enterprise beans often have to make use of information available in persistent
      storage. This is usually done via JDBC. Furthermore, the EJB specification provides for
      entity beans which represent persistent objects with persistent state. EJB containers
      provide services for automatic persistence to a range of persistence technologies. If
      the underlying persistence technology is a SQL-supporting data storage (e.g. a
      relational database), then the applications server will usually make use of JDBC to
      access the storage.
    </ns2552:para>
    <ns2553:para xmlns:ns2553="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      JBoss provides JBossCMP, JBoss Container Managed Persistence as a persistence
      engine for entity beans.
    </ns2553:para>
  </ns2550:section>

  <ns2554:section xmlns:ns2554="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns2555:title xmlns:ns2555="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JTA and EJB Application Servers</ns2555:title>
    <ns2556:para xmlns:ns2556="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The EJB specification provides support for specifying transaction boundaries as
      well as transaction isolation levels declaratively (in XML deployment descriptors). They
      make use of a Java transaction service through the JTA.
    </ns2556:para>
    <ns2557:para xmlns:ns2557="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      It is interesting to note that the decoupling of the transaction logic from the
      business logic -- the former is specified declaratively when enterprise beans are
      deployed while the latter is contained in the code of the enterprise beans opens the
      doors for business logic component vendors. These vendors can develop business logic
      units outside the context of the transactional requirements which are often specific to
      the higher level business processes in which these components are to be deployed.
    </ns2557:para>
    <ns2558:para xmlns:ns2558="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      JBoss provides JBossTX, the JBoss Transaction eXtension as an implementation of a
      Java transaction service.
    </ns2558:para>
  </ns2554:section>

  <ns2559:section xmlns:ns2559="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns2560:title xmlns:ns2560="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JAAS and Enterprise Java Beans</ns2560:title>
    <ns2561:para xmlns:ns2561="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Authentication is not within the responsibility domain of Enterprise Java Beans
      (the business logic layer). Here authorization is the core responsibility and the EJB
      specification provides a mechanism for specifying security roles and service access
      control for these roles.
    </ns2561:para>
    <ns2562:para xmlns:ns2562="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Clients are usually authenticated in the presentation layer and these authenticated
      principals are mapped onto security roles.
    </ns2562:para>
    <ns2563:para xmlns:ns2563="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      JBoss provides JBossSX, the JBoss Security eXtension as a framework for role-based
      authorization. In addition to this, JBossSX also provides mechanism for generating login modules.
    </ns2563:para>
  </ns2559:section>

  <ns2564:section xmlns:ns2564="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns2565:title xmlns:ns2565="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Relevance of JNDI for EJBs</ns2565:title>
    <ns2566:para xmlns:ns2566="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Java clients typically obtain references to enterprise beans via JNDI. Furthermore,
      resource handles (<ns2567:abbrev xmlns:ns2567="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">e.g.</ns2567:abbrev> for database servers) are also obtained through JNDI. Finally one
      enterprise bean gets a handle to another enterprise bean via JNDI.
    </ns2566:para>
    <ns2568:para xmlns:ns2568="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      JBoss provides JBossNS, the JBoss Naming Service as a JNDI implementation.
    </ns2568:para>
  </ns2564:section>

  <ns2569:section xmlns:ns2569="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns2570:title xmlns:ns2570="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Relevance of JMS to EJB Application Servers</ns2570:title>
    <ns2571:para xmlns:ns2571="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The EJB specification now includes message-driven beans. The purpose of
      message-driven beans is to process asynchronous service requests, 
      <ns2572:abbrev xmlns:ns2572="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns2572:abbrev> they receive the
      service request from a messaging service. EJB application service are hence required to
      provide integration with JMS implementations.
    </ns2571:para>
    <ns2573:para xmlns:ns2573="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      JBoss provides JBossMQ as a powerful implementation of a JMS.
    </ns2573:para>
  </ns2569:section>

  <ns2574:section xmlns:ns2574="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns2575:title xmlns:ns2575="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JCA and EJB Application Servers</ns2575:title>
    <ns2576:para xmlns:ns2576="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      EJB application servers are required to provide connection pooling. JBoss provides
      JBossCX, the JBoss Connectivity eXtension, as an implementation of a JCA.
    </ns2576:para>
  </ns2574:section>

  <ns2577:section xmlns:ns2577="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns2578:title xmlns:ns2578="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JBoss and JMX</ns2578:title>
    <ns2579:para xmlns:ns2579="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The entire JBoss Application Server has been designed around JMX. This makes JBoss
      particularly flexible enabling one. Any service is typically installed as a managed bean
      which can then be managed at a higher, more abstract, level.
    </ns2579:para>
  </ns2577:section>

</ns2539:section>