<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
        xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
        xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" version="5.0">
    
    <title> Course Administration</title>
       
   <para>Purpose: To facilitate course administration within Solms TCD.</para>
    
   <para> The Policy for Course Administration within Solms TCD is to execute (establish and put in),
   maintain, carry out and manage the Administration process as described</para>
    
    <para>Procedure: The procedure to follow is:
    <orderedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>Encourage candidates to register online by completing a registration form.</para>
        </listitem>
        
        <listitem>
            <para>At the start of the registration process, provide candidates with the following:
            <orderedlist>
                <listitem><para>A confirmation of the course, the course dates and the venue.</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>A list of all prerequisite for the course.</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>A copy of the rules and regulations and the candidate to sign thereof.</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>A reminder that the course notes can be downloaded free of any cost and irrespection of wheather the 
                candidate enroll or not.</para></listitem>
            </orderedlist>
            </para>
        </listitem>
        
        <listitem><para>On registration, capture the following:</para>
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>The full name of the candidate.</para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>The employment details (if any) of the candidate.</para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>The invoicing details for the enrollment.</para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>The eating preference of the candidate and any other special requirement.</para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
        </listitem>
        
        <listitem><para>After a successful registration,provide the candidate with the following:
            <orderedlist>
                <listitem><para>A formal enrollment confirmation.</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>Details of the dates/times as well as the location of the training venue (including map which 
                guide candidates to the training venue).</para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>An invoice.</para></listitem>
            </orderedlist>
        </para></listitem>
        
        <listitem><para>Generate attendance register for each course.</para></listitem>
        
        <listitem><para>Perform the following 3 working day prior to the start of a course:</para>
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>Check that the attendance has been requested fro  all candidates and update enrollments if neccessary.</para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>Check whether any of the candidates have special requirements (dietary, handicap, need for pre-course preparation material) 
            and that the provision for these has been mad.</para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>Check that all candidates have been invoice</para></listitem>
          
          <listitem><para>Generate an attendance list for the course a day prior to the commencement of the course. </para></listitem>
            
            <listitem><para>Ensure that the attendance register has been signed on each day by the candidates.</para></listitem>
            
            <listitem><para>On the last the day of the course print attendance certificates.</para></listitem>
            
            <listitem><para>Provide feedback to the learner at the end of the course.</para></listitem>
            
            <listitem><para>Get feedback from the learner, verbal and using feedback forms.</para></listitem>

        </orderedlist>
        </listitem>
        
        
    </orderedlist>
    </para>
</section>