<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Executing default life cycle phases</title>
    <para>
        One can now go ahead and execute any of the default life-cycle phases. For example,
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
mvn compile            
]]></programlisting>
        will execute all life cycle phases up to and including the compile phase. 
        The compiled classes are stored in
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
target/classes            
            ]]></programlisting>
        Executing the compile phase will result in executing all phases prior to the compile phase in sequential
        order. This includes, for example, the
        <literal>process-resources</literal> phase which attempt to copy any resources from
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
src/main/resources            
]]></programlisting>
        into the target 
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
            target/classes
            ]]></programlisting>
        so that they are in the class path and that they will be included in the packaging.
    </para>
    <para>
        Similarly we can use
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
mvn test           
]]></programlisting>
        to run the stages up to and including that of compiling and executing the test programs. The test
        results are saved in
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
target/surefire-reports            
            ]]></programlisting>
To execute the life cycle phases up to and including that of creating the jar one can execute
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
mvn package            
]]></programlisting>
        The resultant jar package is simply stored in
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
target            
]]></programlisting>
        If you run
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
mvn install
]]></programlisting>
        it will execute all the preceding phases including the package phase and will then go ahead and install 
        the jar into the local repository.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Deploying onto a server</title>
        <para>
            The last phase of the default build life cycle is the deploy phase. In order to be able to execute the deploy
            phase one needs to set up the distribution information in the POM and specify the authentication details in
            a separate <literal>settings.xml</literal> which is not distributed when the project is deployed.
        </para>
        
        <xi:include href="specifyingDistributionInfo/specifyingDistributionInfo.docbook"/>

        <xi:include href="../../../../../platforms/linux/ssh/publicKeyLogin/publicKeyLogin.docbook"/>
        
        <xi:include href="specifyingAuthenticationSettings/specifyingAuthenticationSettings.docbook"/>
    </section>
</section>    