<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Best practices when defining XML schemas</title>
    <para>
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Avoid anonymous classes</title>
                <para>
                    Anonymous classes are used to explicitly prevent reuse. However, because JAXB
                    will generate its own class names for anonymous classes the resultant binding
                    classes will be more difficult to understand and to debug.
                </para>
            </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Normalize your data structure specifications</title>
                <para>
                    Separate the data domain into separate orthogonal domains persisted in separate XML schemas,
                    thus removing duplication and encouraging reuse.                    
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Minimize the use of groups</title>
                <para>
                    Groups provide a mechanism for defining reusable collections of elements or attributes. Groups do
                    not, however, match naturally onto Java constructs. In general one should consider using abstract
                    complex types instead of groups.
                    create a matching concept
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Minimize the use of types for collections</title>
                <para>
                    It is common to define types for collections. Except for the case where the collection is a root element,
                    there is usually no need to do this and one only creates unnecessary classes generated for these 
                    collections.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        
    </para>
</section>    