<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns1844:section xmlns:ns1844="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.tecnologies.java.j2se.java2D.renderingGraphicsObjects.renderingGraphicsObjects">
    <ns1845:title xmlns:ns1845="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Rendering Graphics Objects</ns1845:title>
    <ns1846:para xmlns:ns1846="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The rendering process is essentially the same as it was with the previous versions of
        Java. Drawing occurs within a component (recall that a component is an object which has a
        visual representation). The component may be a general drawing canves, but one can also draw
        onto the glass pane of any container or even on a component itself. One draws on the
        graphics (or rendering) context of the component and the component's
        <ns1847:emphasis xmlns:ns1847="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">paint()</ns1847:emphasis> or<ns1848:emphasis xmlns:ns1848="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">update()</ns1848:emphasis> method will automatically be
        called when the component has to be rendered (<ns1849:abbrev xmlns:ns1849="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">e.g.</ns1849:abbrev> drawn or redrawn).</ns1846:para>
    <ns1850:para xmlns:ns1850="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> Java 2D supplies a more sophisticated graphics context, <ns1851:emphasis xmlns:ns1851="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Graphics2D</ns1851:emphasis>,
        which is a specialization of the <ns1852:emphasis xmlns:ns1852="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Graphics</ns1852:emphasis>, the graphics context
        supplied with the Abstract Windows Toolkit (AWT). The graphics context is supplied to the
        <ns1853:emphasis xmlns:ns1853="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">paint()</ns1853:emphasis> and <ns1854:emphasis xmlns:ns1854="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">update()</ns1854:emphasis> methods as parameter and has
        to be type cast into <ns1855:emphasis xmlns:ns1855="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Graphics2D</ns1855:emphasis> if the more advanced features of
        <ns1856:emphasis xmlns:ns1856="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Graphics2D</ns1856:emphasis> are going to be used<ns1857:programlisting xmlns:ns1857="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
class SomeComponent
{
  ...
  public void paint (Graphics gc)
  {
    Graphics2D gc2D = (Graphics2D)gc;
    ...
  }
}
        </ns1857:programlisting>
    </ns1850:para>
    <ns1858:para xmlns:ns1858="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The graphics context is in some ways like an artist. The artist selects one pen type
        supplying a particular stroke, selects a color and draws. All drawing occurs using this pen
        until the artist selects another pen. If the artist wants another stroke or color he/she has
        to drop the pen she/he has been using and select onother pen. </ns1858:para>
    <ns1859:para xmlns:ns1859="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The graphics context which renders the graphics objects has a number of attributes
        specifying the rendering modes. These include the current color, stroke, current text font
        and many more.</ns1859:para>
    <xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" href="selectingAStrokeForTheGraphicsContext.docbook"/>
    <xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" href="selectingAColor.docbook"/>
    <xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" href="guiFeaturesOfTheApplication.docbook"/>
    <xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" href="fieldValidation.docbook"/>
    <xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" href="settingTheRenderingQualityOfTheGraphicsContext.docbook"/>
</ns1844:section>