<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">
    <title>Introduction</title>

    <para>
        JUnit <footnote>
        <para><uri>http://www.junit.org/</uri></para>
    </footnote> is a simple framework to test
        the externally observable behaviour of the components of a system,
        in order to ensure that the expected behaviour is exhibited under
        any number of conditions or scenarios.
    </para>
    <para>
        JUnit encourages<emphasis>test-driven-development</emphasis>, a
        methodology that:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>Increases the trust of the developers and owners in their
                    system,
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Increases developer productivity by setting clear, testable
                    goals at each level of granularity, and
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Improves the modifiability of a system, by reducing the
                    possibility for system changes to have unintended (or
                    unnoticed) side-effects.
                </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        JUnit provides the developer with
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    A standard way to write<emphasis>unit
                    tests</emphasis>, classes that each test some aspect of the
                    behaviour of a system. These tests have a fixed<emphasis>life
                    cycle</emphasis>, and a standard mechanism to indicate
                    <emphasis>test cases</emphasis>
                    (several of which can be
                    contained within a unit test).
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Infrastructure to make statements
                    (<emphasis>assertions</emphasis>) about the expected
                    behaviour of the system. If these assertions are incorrect,
                    the particular test case fails.
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Standard infrastructure to programmatically run tests. Tests
                    are typically executed, however, in the developer's IDE (if it
                    suports JUnit intergation) or, more typically, as an automated
                    task in a project based on the Apache Ant or Maven build systems.
                </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        The simple and accessible nature of the JUnit framework make it easy
        for even inexperienced developers to adopt test-driven development.
    </para>

</section>