<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.patterns.blackboard.qualityAttributeMeasures" xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">

  <title>Quality attribute measures</title>
  <para>
    Finally we would like to see how different architectural quality attributes are realized 
    by the blackboard pattern.
  </para>
  <section>
    <title>Modifiability and manageab</title>
    <para>
      The blackboard architectural is very modifiable and manageable in the sense that the knowledge sources
      which contribute to finding a solution are independent of one another and that the 
      solving process need not rely on certain knowledge sources being available and that
      new knowledge sources can be simply plugged into the system.
    </para>
  </section>
 
  <section>
    <title>Performance</title>
    <para>
      Blackboard architectures are usually weak from a performance perspective.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Security</title>
    <para>
      Security is usually unaffected by choosing a blackboard-based architecture.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Reliability</title>
    <para>
      On the one side a blackboard architecture usually improves reliability in the sense 
      that stable solutions which are robust to noise and which have to find support 
      across abstraction levels are produced.
    </para>
    <para>
      On the down side, there is no guarantee that a solution will actually be found and
      it may be difficult to give timing guarantees on the availability of a solution.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Time-to-market</title>
    <para>
      The knowledge components may be re-usable which may improve time-to-market.
      Also, a solution may be more readily available in situations where a deterministic
      search for a solution may prove a very difficult task to implement.
    </para>
    <para>
      Blackboard architectures are, however, themselves quite difficult to implement and
      may require extra tuning and testing efforts.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Integrability</title>
    <para>
       The black-board architecture improves integrability of knowledge and algorithms.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Usability</title>
    <para>
      
    </para>
  </section>
  
  
</section>