<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns92:section xmlns:ns92="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.transactions.transactionModels.transactionModels">

  <ns93:title xmlns:ns93="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Transaction models</ns93:title>
  <ns94:para xmlns:ns94="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    There are a number of transactions models generally used. The most common are 
    <ns95:itemizedlist xmlns:ns95="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns96:listitem xmlns:ns96="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns97:para xmlns:ns97="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">flat transactions and </ns97:para>
      </ns96:listitem>
      <ns98:listitem xmlns:ns98="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns99:para xmlns:ns99="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">nested transactions</ns99:para>
      </ns98:listitem>
    </ns95:itemizedlist>
  </ns94:para>
  <ns100:para xmlns:ns100="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    The J2EE specification only requires support for flat transactions. The reason for this
    is that these are standard across databases and hence J2EE does not introduce excessive
    requirements on databases which can be used with application servers.
  </ns100:para>
  
  <ns101:section xmlns:ns101="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns102:title xmlns:ns102="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Flat Transactions</ns102:title>
    <ns103:para xmlns:ns103="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      In the case of flat transactions each unit of work is at the same level and if any of
      these fails, the entire transaction fails and is rolled back.
    </ns103:para>
  </ns101:section>
  
  <ns104:section xmlns:ns104="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns105:title xmlns:ns105="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Nested Transactions</ns105:title>
    <ns106:para xmlns:ns106="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Nested transactions allows for lower-level atomic units to be embedded in
      higher-level atomic units. The result is a <ns107:emphasis xmlns:ns107="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">transaction tree</ns107:emphasis>. 
      If any of the
      sub-transactions fails, it will be rolled back, but the higher level transactions will not
      be affected.
    </ns106:para>
    <ns108:para xmlns:ns108="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      For example, part of the work flow of organizing a party may be to obtain funding and
      to book your favorite band. We would start transaction 
      <ns109:literal xmlns:ns109="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">OrganizeParty</ns109:literal> which encapsulates
      the hole process. We may then try and obtain the funding in a nested transaction,
      <ns110:literal xmlns:ns110="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">ObtainFunds</ns110:literal>. 
      Within that we try to transfer the required funds from your credit card to
      your current account. This would be done in a nested transaction 
      <ns111:literal xmlns:ns111="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">TransferFromCreditCard</ns111:literal>.
    </ns108:para>
    <ns112:para xmlns:ns112="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns113:emphasis xmlns:ns113="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">If that transaction fails may not want to abort the idea of having the party. 
      Only that step should be rolled back.</ns113:emphasis> 
      You can start a new transaction for transferring the required
      funds from your savings account, <ns114:literal xmlns:ns114="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">TransferFromSavingsAccount</ns114:literal>. 
      If either of these is successful, the <ns115:literal xmlns:ns115="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">ObtainFunds</ns115:literal> is successful, but still 
      kept open (not committed). Next you attempt the transaction <ns116:literal xmlns:ns116="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">BookBand</ns116:literal>. 
      If successful, then the whole process, <ns117:literal xmlns:ns117="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">organizeParty</ns117:literal>,
      can be committed resulting in <ns118:literal xmlns:ns118="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">BookBand</ns118:literal> and 
      <ns119:literal xmlns:ns119="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">ObtainFunds</ns119:literal> being committed. If either step
      failed all transactions would be rolled back and there would be no party.
    </ns112:para>
  </ns104:section>
</ns92:section>