<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>What is Version Control?</title>
    <para>
        Version or revision control refers to the management of the dynamics of resources (typically information resources)
        over their life spans. Version control typically includes all or a subset of the following functionality:
       <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                Controlled and often selective access to resources.
            </para></listitem>
           <listitem><para>
                Protecting resources such that they are not corrupted due to concurrent access resource locking,
                change merging and conflict resolution.
            </para></listitem>    
            <listitem><para>
                Providing access to the various versions of the resource through a variety of access channels.
            </para></listitem>
           <listitem><para>
               Reporting including audit trails, reporting differences between version, ...
           </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Providing an efficient storage environment for a resource across all its versions.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Undoing small or large changes to a resource.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Support separate development of various branches of a resource, allowing for the maintenance of older and production
                versions while a development version is developed independently. 
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Merging changes made across multiple branches into a single branch or trunk.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        Version control systems are often integrated in environments through which the resources are modified. This includes
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                editors and word processors,        
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                development environments,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                modeling environments like UML tools,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                build tools, 
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Wikis, 
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                databases,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                knowledge repositories, and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                any other applications (calendering systems, project management systems, ...) which require control
                of the dynamics of the resources managed by these applications.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    