<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section
    xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" version="5.0">
    <title>Governance in an SOE</title>
    <para>
        One of the critical aspects of a services-oriented enterprise is that of governance. 
        Governance is concerned with oversight, monitoring, reporting and enforcing of the organization's policies and processes.
        Governance  is critical for 
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                ensuring that the organization's activities are aligned with its vision and mission,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                quality assurance across the organization's processes,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                managing the risk the organization is exposed to in the context of both, internal service delivery and external
                service provider usage,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                optimizing the organization's processes and resource usage in order to maximise stake-holder returns.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Alignment of provided services with organization's vision, mission and business strategies</title>
        <para>
            This includes
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    continuously monitoring that the organization's services portfolio includes only services which are aligned
                    with the organization's evolving vision and mission, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    ensuring that the processes for prioritizing the iterative development of new services in line with the organization's business strategies and
                    optimization of value generation are in place and are adhered to.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Maintaining and monitoring the services catalog</title>
        <para>
            Governance requires the maintenance of a services catalog listing both, the services provided
            by the organization as well as the services consumed by the organization. Governance will also monitor
            the services catalog
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Architecture/infrastructure management</title>
        <para>
            Governance is responsible for monitoring that the SOE architecture provides a suitable infrastructure for hosting the organization's
            services and executing the organization's business processes. It needs to ensure that the processes for defining, implementing and
            evolving the organizational architecture are put in place and adghered to.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Service development management</title>
        <para>
            This ensures that the processes of developing new services are effectively managed and includes management and oversight of 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the service requirements analysis,        
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the business process design, 
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    assessing and the infrastructure requirements for the service are met,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    service construction including software development and personal training processes,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    quality assurance around service development, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the processes around service publication and advertizing.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Contract delivery oversight</title>
        <para>
            Governance is responsible for monitoring contract delivery across internal and external service providers and for
            enforcing processes which address issues around contract delivery.
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Oversight, monitoring and reporting of client and stake holder value generation</title>
        <para>
            Governance includes the monitoring of client and stake holder value generation (<abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>
            customer satisfaction) and the definition and enforcing of processes which optimize these.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Defining and enforcing criteria for service provider selection</title>
        <para>
            Governance must ensure that the criteria for service provider selection are defined, documented, communicated and enforced
            across the organization.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Enforcing security policies</title>
        <para>
            Governance needs to ensure that the security policies are defined, implemented and adhered to. This includes
            an infrastructure for authentication as well as the infrastructure and processes around access control which enforce
            that the entities only obtain access to those services which they should have access to.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Change management</title>
        <para>
            Governance must make certain that the change management processes are put in place and enforced. 
        </para>
    </section>

</section>