<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>SBA as special type of EBA</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>space based architecture (SBA)</primary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>event based architecture (EBA)</primary></indexterm>
        A <emphasis>Space Based Architecture</emphasis> (SBA) can be seen as a special type of an
        <emphasis>Events Based Architecture</emphasis> (EBA). It shares with the latter the decoupling
        <indexterm><primary>decoupling</primary><secondary>of processing units</secondary></indexterm>
        of processing units through events.
    </para>
    <para>
        In essence events with information are put into space.
        <indexterm><primary>space</primary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>event</primary></indexterm>
        <note><para>
            An event is defined as the asynchronous communication of information. The event thus can
            <indexterm><primary>event</primary><secondary>definition of</secondary></indexterm>
            convey any information relevant to the event. A special case of an event is that of receiving
            a service request.
            <indexterm><primary>service request</primary><secondary>as event</secondary></indexterm>
        </para></note>
        A processing unit may take up the event and perform some processing. Its result may be to
        put a new event into space which may be taken up by another processing unit for further processing.
        A processing unit may or may not remove an event which it has processed.
        <indexterm><primary>processing</primary><secondary>unit</secondary></indexterm>
    </para>
    <para>
        In a <emphasis>Space Based Architecute</emphasis> (SBA) there is no direct coupling between
        <indexterm><primary>decoupling</primary><secondary>of processing units</secondary></indexterm>
        processing units. Each processing unit would simply register to receive certain events.
        <indexterm><primary>event</primary></indexterm>
        The process to be executed (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> business process) is
        <indexterm><primary>process</primary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>process</primary><secondary>business</secondary></indexterm>
        <indexterm>
            <primary>business process</primary>
            <see><indexterm><primary>process</primary></indexterm></see>
        </indexterm>
        nowhere explicitly specified. It is only defined implicitly through
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the events a processing unit reacts to and generates, and        
                <indexterm><primary>event</primary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the processing done by the processing units.
                <indexterm><primary>processing</primary><secondary>unit</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    