<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za-->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Maturity level requirements</title>
    <para>
        CMM/CMMI define requirements for each maturity level
    </para>
    

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za-->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Level 2: The Repeatable Level</title>
    <para> The characteristics of organizations having reached the repeatable level are
        identifed by the CMM as <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>Project management policies are introduced and implemented on a per
                    project basis. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>The process introduced and enforced for the project is <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>documented, </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>trained, </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>measured and </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>able to improve.</para>
                    </listitem>
                </itemizedlist></para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Planning and managing new projects is based on experience with similar
                    projects resulting in realistic schedule and cost estimates. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Integrity control is applied to software requirements and the work
                    products developed to satisfy them. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Installation of basic software management controls including the
                    ability to track <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>schedules, </para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>costs and </para>
                        </listitem>
                        <listitem>
                            <para>functionalities.</para>
                        </listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                    <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> throughout the development process the schedule
                    and cost estimates are baselined – the estimates are updated with the
                    latest information and communicated to the customer. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Introduction and enforcement of software project standards.</para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist> The result is that the planning and tracking of software projects is
        stable and that early success can be repeated without relying on the heroic effort
        of certain individuals.</para>
    <para> Note that for level 2 organizations the processes may differ across projects and
        that there need not be any linking between the policies guiding different
        projects.</para>
</section>

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za-->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Level 3: The Defined Level</title>
    <para> At the defined level the organization standardizes its software development
        processes.</para>
    <para> CMM characterizes a level-3 compliant organization by <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>The standard process for developing and maintaining software across
                the organization is documented including <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>software engineering processes and </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>management processes</para>
                    </listitem>
                </itemizedlist> and these processes are integrated into a coherent
                whole. This enables management to obtain objective status information
                across all projects. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>A group, the software engineering process group, takes ownership of
                the organization's process activities. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>An organization-wide training program ensures that all role players
                are aware of their roles and are able to fulfll their duties. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>For each project the organization's standard process is tailored to
                fulfll the specifc project requirements. The resultant tailored process
                is called the defined software process. The defined software process
                includes <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>readiness criteria, </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>process input defnitions, </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>standards and procedures for performing the work, </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>verifcation mechanisms, </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>outputs and </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para>completion criteria.</para>
                    </listitem>
                </itemizedlist></para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za-->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Level 4: The Managed Level</title>
    <para> The software process capability of organizations which have reached the managed
        level is quantifable and predictable. The process is continuously measured and
        stable and corrective action can be taken when process limits are violated.</para>
    <para> The CMM requires that level 4 organizations <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
            <para>Set quantitative goals for both <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Software products </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Software development and maintenance processes.</para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist></para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Software processes are instrumented with well-defined and consistent
                measurement processes for productivity and quality. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Management continuously measures productivity and quality across all
                defined software projects and maintains an organization-wide software
                process database for this information. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>Projects obtain control of their processes by narrowing the variation
                in process performance. This enables management to distinguish between
                standard process variations (random noise) and systematic problems which
                should be addressed. </para>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <para>The risks involved moving up the learning curve of a new application
                domain are known and carefully managed.</para>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za-->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Level 5: The Optimizing Level</title>
    <para> Organizations which have reached the optimized level are focused on continuous
        organization-wide process improvements. <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>The organization has means to identify strengths and weaknesses of a
                    process pro actively enabling it to introduce measures which could
                    possibly prevent defects. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>If defects occur, they are analyzed for their causes. The process is
                    modifed to prevent re-occurrence of defects and the lessons learnt from
                    that project is distributed to other projects. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>It can perform cost-beneft analysis of new technologies and proposed
                    process changes. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>One of the focuses of level-5 organizations is to minimize waste,
                    i.e. the amount of work which has to be redone. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Technology and process improvements are planned and managed as
                    ordinary business activities.</para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist> Note that levels 4 and 5 are conceptually based on statistical
        techniques.</para>
</section>

