<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Simple Linux configuration</title>
    <para>
        A simple linux configuration is straight-forward. You simply have an entry block per kernel you are booting.
        Each boot record will specify
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                a title under which it will be published in the GRUB boot menu,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the boot disk and partition, 
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the kernel hosted on that boot partition which should be loaded for this entry, and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the Linux root directory which should be used.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        A boot partition is specified within brackets with the type of disk followed by the disk number followed by a comma and the
        and the partition number on that disk with both, the disk and partition numbers being zero based.
    </para>
    <para>    
        . For example
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
(hd2,0)            
]]></programlisting>
         specifies the first partition of the third physical drive which is a hard disk.      
         The brackets are a must; all devices listed in GRUB menu must be enclosed in brackets. Instead of <literal>(hd)</literal>
        you can use <literal>(fd)</literal> for floppy disks, <literal>(cd)</literal> for cdroms and <literal>(nd)</literal> for a 
        network card (when booting of the flash drive hosted on the network card). Flash drives are also mapped onto a hard drive
        number, e.g. <literal>(hd2)</literal>.
        <note><para>
            In GRUB-2 the partition numbering start with 1 while the disk numbering still start with zero.
        </para></note>    
    </para>
    <para>
        A typical GRUB-1 configuration file looks as follows:
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
default 0  # boot first entry by default
timeout 30  # Wait 10 secs before booting default entry

title Gentoo Linux 2.6.31-r6
root (hd0,0)  #1st disk, 1st partition
kernel /boot/kernel-2.6.31-gentoo-r6 root=/dev/sda3

title Gentoo Linux 2.6.31-r6 (rescue)
root (hd0,0)
kernel /boot/kernel-2.6.31-gentoo-r6 root=/dev/sda3 init=/bin/bb

title Windows XP
rootnoverify (hd0,4)  # Windows on partition 5 of disk 1
makeactive
chainloader +1
            ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
</section>
