<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Requirements for a SOE</title>
    <para>
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                Any activity at any level of granularity is done in the context of providing a service.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Higher level services are assembled across lower level services (service orchestration).
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Services contracts are maintained for all services provided and consumed by the
                organization including services sourced from internal systems and departments
                as well as from external service providers.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The organization can easily switch between service providers which potentially
                realize the services contracts. A swithc of service provider does not require changing
                the business process.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The organization maintains an infrastructure for for service routing, delivery
                and service provider adapting (transformation).
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The organization uses technology neutral business process design and business
                processes are managed by business, not by tecnology.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                In a SOE structure is solely their to support processes. Structure is continuously
                pruned in order to minimize the structural complexity.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                A SOE strives for dynamic service provider selection which uses real-time
                service discovery.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    