<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Immediate and deferred expression evaluation</title>
    <para>
        EL supports both <emphasis>immediate</emphasis> and <emphasis>deferred</emphasis>
        expression evaluation. 
    </para>
    <para>
        In most cases it is sufficient to have expressions evaluated by the JSF framework
        whenever the information is required in the standard phase when business services
        are executed, i.e. in the <literal>update-model-values</literal>, 
        <emphasis>invoke application</emphasis> and <literal>render-view</literal>
        phases. If this is sufficient (and for most things it is), then one will request
        deferred evaluation by prepending the EL expression with a # as is done in the 
        following two EL expressions
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
<h:inputText value="#{createPersonBinding.name}"/>


<h:commandButton action="#{createPersonBinding.persistPerson()}"/>
            ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
    <para>
        You can mix JSF component tags with JSTL (JSP Tag Library) tags 
        (e.g. the core JSTL action tags). Preferably this should be done 
        only in exceptional cases and one needs to take care as JSP EL
        expressions (those used in the JSTL tags) are evaluated immediately
        whilst the expressions used in JSF component tags are evaluated
        at the appropriate time in the JSF life cycle.
    </para>
    <para>
        For this reason there is a need to be able to request immediate
        evaluation of EL expressions when using JSTL tags. This can be 
        done by preprending the EL expression with a <literal>$</literal> sign:
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
<c:forEach var=”lineItem” items=”${order.lineItems}” >            
]]></programlisting>
        <note><para>
            The expressions for which immediate evaluation is requested are, of course,
            read-only.
        </para></note>
    </para>
    <para>
        Expressions for which <emphasis>immediate evaluation</emphasis> is requested
        are compiled when the page is compiled and are executed once when the JSP
        or JSF is executed.
        <note><para>
            For JSPs <literal>#{someExpression}</literal> and <literal>${someExpression}</literal>
            are both evaluated in the same way, using immediate evaluation.
        </para></note>
    </para>
</section>
