<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-20 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Estimation</title>

    <para> The key elements of estimation within eXtreme programming are <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para> breaking work up into small user stories (using work breakdown structures),
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> estimating the time required by comparing the story to the time historically
                    required for similar stories. </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Using a points system to abstract from time</title>
        <para> To do this eXtreme programming introduces a point system for representative stories.
            The purpose is to introduce a new measure such that the result of the estimation is not
                <emphasis>"so many days"</emphasis>, but "so many of building this". This is
            expected to yield better estimates as it abstracts estimators from the actual time
            units, removing the focus on deadlines. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Spiking</title>
        <para> In cases where the team has no experience with similar stories, XP suggests using
            spiking. </para>
        <para> Spiking refers to building a small proof of concept which demonstrates that the core
            problem has been solved and to use this information to perform the estimation for the
            full construction of that story. </para>
        <para> This story will ultimately also be available as a sample story against which the
            building of other stories can be estimated. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Estimates are tracked to obtain the project velocity</title>
        <para> The project manager keeps track of the number of points and stories which are
            constructed in each iteration. This enables the project manager to estimate the exchange
            rate between points and developer hours. </para>
    </section>
</section>
