<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Assigning users to security groups</title>
    <para>
        Access to system resources (file access in Linux) can be set on either user level, or
        on group level. Multiple users can belong to the same group and setting file
        authorization at a group level, and is typically much more maintenance friendly and 
        indirectly more secure.
    </para>
    <para>
        Each user is in at least one security group -- recall that the default primary group for 
        a new user was specified in the <filename>/etc/default/useradd</filename> file.
        You can view the group memberships in the <filename>/etc/group</filename>
        file. Below we show an excerpt of a group file:
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
root:x:0:
mail:x:12:fritz
audio:x:17:fritz,sifiso,dawid
udev:x:16:fritz,sifiso,dawid
usb:x:17:fritz,sifiso,dawid
floppy:x:19:
cdrom:x:20:
console:x:21:
at:x:25:
video:x:33:fritz,solms,sifiso,dawid
games:x:40:
ftp:x:49:
man:x:62:
sshd:x:65:
nobody:x:65533:nobody
nogroup:x:65534:nobody
users:x:100:
solms:x:500:fritz,sifiso,dawid
xcdwrite:x:501:fritz
    ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
    <para>
        Note that a Linux system typically has many groups and often changing a user's permissions
        only involves adding him/her to or removing her/him from a group.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Adding a new group via <command>groupadd</command></title>
        <para>
            You can add a new group by editing the <filename>/etc/group</filename>
            file. Alternatively you can use the <command>groupadd</command> which
            is typically used in its simplest form:
            <cmdsynopsis><command>
                groupadd <![CDATA[<groupName>]]>        
            </command></cmdsynopsis>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Deleting a group via <command>groupdel</command></title>
        <para>
            Once again you can delete a group by deleting the group's entry in the
            <filename>/etc/group</filename> file. Alternatively you can use the 
            <command>groupdel</command> command:
            <cmdsynopsis><command>
                groupdel <![CDATA[<groupName>]]>        
            </command></cmdsynopsis>
            <note>
                <para>
                    You will have to reallocate the permissions of all those files which were allocated to
                    that group to another existing group.
                </para>
            </note>
        </para>
    </section>
</section>
