<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Generic component attributes</title>
    <para>
        There is a range of attributes which is common to all HTML components. These include
        
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>id :String</title>
                <para>
                    An identifier for the component which needs to be unique to the page.
                    The JSF framework will generate a unique <literal>id</literal> for
                    those components for which no <literal>id</literal> was specified.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem> 
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>value :Object</title>
                <para>
                    The value of the object which is shown to the user. This can be
                    text or a value expression.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>rendered :boolean</title>
                <para>
                    This attribute determines whether the component will be visible or not.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>immediate :boolean</title>
                <para>
                    If this attribute is set, the the conversion, validation as well as 
                    the execution of any actions and action listeners for that component 
                    is brought forward to the <emphasis>apply-request-values</emphasis> phase
                    This is useful if the entire page need not be parsed.                    
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>converter</title>
                <para>
                    This attribute specifies which converter should be used to convert the
                    user input to the internal data type.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>validator</title>
                <para>
                    This attribute specifies the validator which should be used to validate the
                    data provided by the user.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>style</title>
                <para>
                    The CSS style to be applied to the component.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>styleClass</title>
                <para>
                    The CSS style class (or classes) to be assigned to the component. If there
                    are multiple, the class names are separated by spaces.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    