<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-06-02 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>TOGAF elements</title>
    <para>
        In many ways TOGAF can be seen as a collection of resources, guidelines and frameworks which assist
        architects to define, implement, govern and evolve enterprise IT architectures. The core elements of
        TOGAF are
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                The <emphasis>Architecture Development Method</emphasis> (ADM) which aims to provide a high-level 
                process for developing IT architectures with the specific aim of targeting enterprise IT architectures.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                A collection of <emphasis>ADM Guidelines and techniques</emphasis>.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The <emphasis>Architecture Content Framework</emphasis> specifies a formal structure for the inputs
                and outputs of the process steps of the ADM.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The <emphasis>Enterprise Continuum</emphasis> which is a repository of artifacts and resources for the design
                and implementation of the IT system.  
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Two <emphasis>Reference Models</emphasis> which define generic foundation architectures on which the
                Enterprise Continuum can be built. TOGAF includes the
                <emphasis>Technical Reference Model</emphasis> (TRM) and the
                <emphasis>Integrated Information Infrastructure Reference Model</emphasis> (IIIRM).
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                An <emphasis>Architecture Capability Framework</emphasis> which provides a set of reference materials in order
                to assist with realizing the architectural capability.  The framework discusses architecture compliance, contracts,
                governance and architecture maturity models.
            </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
    </para>
</section>    