<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.qualityAttributes.reliability.faultDetection" xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">

  <title>Fault detection</title>
  <para>
    The strategies commonly used to detect faults include exceptions, ping/echo and
    heartbeat and dead-lock detection.
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>Exceptions</title>
    <para>
      Exceptions are generally used by service providers to inform their clients
      that a service they requested is not going to be provided. This may be because
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>
          the preconditions for that service were not met, or  
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          that the service provider encountered a problem which prevented it to
          provide the service.
        </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
      Exceptions provide thus a communication mechanism which enables service providers to
      notify clients of a fault, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> to enable clients to detect faults.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Ping/echo</title>
    <para>
      This is often used by clients to probe whether a remote component is available. 
      The client sends a signal expecting a response. If no response is obtained within a
      predefined timeout period, a fault is detected.
      </para>
      <para>
        In order to reduce the communication overheads a 
        <emphasis>hierarchical ping/echo strategy</emphasis>
        is often deployed which mirrors the layers of the client-server hierarchy. One object
        pings thus only its immediate service providers which in turn pings its lower-level
        service providers.
        <note><para>
          This approach also does not contribute to the complexity of the communication
          network, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> no further communication paths are required
          tan what were needed anyway to send the service request messages.
        </para></note>
      </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Heartbeat</title>
    <para>
      In the ping/echo approach the client actively sends signals to probe service providers
      and waits for a response. The heartbeat tactic lets service providers send signals in
      regular intervals which are detected by clients. If a signal is not received within a 
      specific period, the client assumes that the service provider is down.
    </para>
    <note><para>
      The heartbeat signal may carry further information like, for example, the current workload.
    </para></note>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Deadlock detection</title>
    <para>
      A deadlock occurs when threads of wait on each other to release resource locks. It can
      occur only if at least one thread requires the locks of multiple resources at the same time.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  
  
</section>