<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.schemas.uniquenessConstraints.uniquenessConstraints" 
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Uniqueness Constraints</title>
  
  <indexterm>
    <primary>XML Schema</primary>
    <secondary>uniqueness constraints</secondary>
  </indexterm>
  
    <para>XML in general supports the concept of IDs which the parser enforces to be unique within an
        XML document. However, IDs have several disadvantages: 
      <itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
              <para>They have to be unique within the entire document. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
              <para>We can only enforce the uniqueness constraint on attribute values, not on
                  the text content of an element. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
              <para>They must comply to the criteria of XML identifiers -
                  <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> they may not  start with a number. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
              <para>We cannot enforce that a combination of elements are unique.</para>
          </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <para> 
      In order to address these shortcomings XML Schema introduces uniqueness or
      identity constraints. They offer a number of advantages over IDs:
      <itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
              <para>Uniqueness constraints can be applied to both, attribute values and
                  element contents. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
              <para>The uniqueness can be scoped and does not have to apply across the entire
                  XML document. For example, an attribute's uniqueness can be enforced across
                  all elements of a certain type. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
              <para>The unique value may be any XML Schema datatype and may start with a
                  numeral. </para>
          </listitem>
          <listitem>
              <para>One can enforce in XML Schema a uniqueness constraint across elements and
                  attributes such that they do not have to be unique individually, but that a
                  combination of element/attribute values need only be unique.</para>
          </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Specifying a Single Uniqueness Constraint</title>
        <para> 
          Consider, for example, the following XML document.
        <programlisting language="XML">  
<xi:include parse="text" href="src/partsCatalogUniqueIds.xml"/>
        </programlisting>  
      </para>  
        <para> 
            Here we may want to enforce that each part must have a unique id. Similarly
            we may want to enforce that each manufacturer has a unique id, but a
            manufacturer could have the same id as one of the parts.
        </para>
        <para> 
          In order to specify the uniqueness constraint we need to Specify a name for
          the constraint. This name is used to identify the constraint itself. Specify the
          scope of the constraint. The constraint has to be specified within the element
          to which it applies. If the constraint should apply across the entire document
          it should be placed within the root element. In our case we want to specify the
          part ids should be unique within the <emphasis>parts</emphasis> element and that
          manufacturer ids should be unique within the <emphasis>manufacturers</emphasis>
          element. The two constraints should be positioned within the corresponding
          elements. Define the selector to which the constraint applies. The selector is
          the actual element to which the constraint should apply. Define the field to
          which the uniqueness constraint applies. Here one specifies the element or
          attribute whose value must be unique within the scope of the constraint.
        </para>
        <para> 
          The following schema definition enforces unique part ids within
        <programlisting language="XML">  
<xi:include parse="text" href="src/partsCatalogUniqueIds.xsd"/>
        </programlisting>  
      </para>  
      <note><para>The constraint is specified using XPath, the standard XML
      addressing and query language.</para></note>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Specifying a Uniqueness Constraint for a Combination of Fields</title>
        <para> 
          XML Schema allows one to specify that a combination of fields must be unique.
          For example, we may want to allow different manufacturers to produce parts and
          each manufacturer would assign part ids independently - hence the part ids would
          not be unique across manufacturers, but the combination of the part id
          attribute and the manufacturer child element of a part must be unique. This is
          specified in the following schema definition:
        <programlisting language="XML">  
<xi:include parse="text" href="src/partsCatalogMultiFieldIds.xsd"/>
        </programlisting>  
        </para>
        <para>
          The following document is legal if one of
          <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
              the part's id, or              
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
              the manufacturer for the part
            </para></listitem>
          </itemizedlist>
          differ. If both are equal, the document will not be valid.
          <programlisting language="XML">  
<xi:include parse="text" href="src/partsCatalogMultiFieldIds.xml"/>
          </programlisting>  
        </para>  
    </section>

</section>
