<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns1654:section xmlns:ns1654="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2ee.ejb.enterpriseBeans.entityBeans.resourceReference.resourceReference">

  <ns1655:title xmlns:ns1655="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Specifying a resource reference in ejb-jar.xml</ns1655:title>
  <ns1656:para xmlns:ns1656="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    In the ejb-jar file we specify a resource reference for the resource which will
    represent the persistence resource for the bean. For example:
<ns1657:programlisting xmlns:ns1657="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
&lt;ejb-jar&gt;
&lt;display-name&gt;Account entity bean&lt;/display-name&gt;
&lt;enterprise-beans&gt;
 &lt;entity&gt;
   &lt;ejb-name&gt;AccountMySQL&lt;/ejb-name&gt;
   ...
   &lt;resource-ref&gt;
     &lt;res-ref-name&gt;jdbc/mySQLDS&lt;/res-ref-name&gt;
     &lt;res-type&gt;javax.sql.DataSource&lt;/res-type&gt;
     &lt;res-auth&gt;Container&lt;/res-auth&gt;
   &lt;/resource-ref&gt;
 &lt;/entity&gt;
 ...
&lt;/enterprise-beans&gt;
&lt;assembly-descriptor&gt;
 ...
&lt;/assembly-descriptor&gt;
&lt;/ejb-jar&gt;
</ns1657:programlisting>        
    specifies
    that the entity bean,<ns1658:literal xmlns:ns1658="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">AccountMySQL</ns1658:literal> will be persisted in
    a resource identified as<ns1659:literal xmlns:ns1659="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">jdbc/MySQLDS</ns1659:literal>. The resource
    reference has the following 3 entries: res-ref-name This specifies a logical name used to
    refer to a resource connection factory. In the  
    <ns1660:literal xmlns:ns1660="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">jboss.xml</ns1660:literal> file this logical name is bound to a JNDI name.
    res-type which specifies the type (class) for the resource manager. In our case it is a
    class implementing <ns1661:literal xmlns:ns1661="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">javax.sql.DataSource</ns1661:literal> interface
    specified in JDBC 2. This is a standard interface for connection pools to SQL data
    sources. res-auth is assigned one of the following values: Container: This value specifies
    that authentication information is specified in the deployment descriptor (or in the
      <ns1662:literal xmlns:ns1662="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">jboss.jcml</ns1662:literal> file). In other words, the authentication
    is supplied by the deployer. Application: specifies that the application will gather
    resource authentication information and that the application will supply this information
    when requesting connections to the resource.
  </ns1656:para>
</ns1654:section>