<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Outline of the original architecture</title>
    <para>
        The original architecture had the following core features:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                The system core was realized via a <emphasis>multi-layered clustered environment with
                    different software layers deployed on different hardware layers</emphasis>.
                There were 4 layers with
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        two machines load balancing incoming requests across 
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        a cluster of 5 front-end machines demarshaling the request and persisting the
                        incoming claims which load balance the calls onto        
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        a rules processing cluster which, in turn, load balances the preprocessed
                        requests
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        across a third cluster of machines which marshaled the preprocessed medical aid
                        claims onto messages for the individual medical aid administrators.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                <emphasis>Intra-layer communication</emphasis> was done via asynchronous XML messages.
                The original synchronous request was thus internally mapped onto asynchronous messages
                between the software layers, forwarded synchronously to the medical aid administrator,
                and returned through the layers asynchronously. For the return the asynchronous message
                was matched with the original synchronous request in order top provide a synchronous
                response.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Persistence was realized through a XML-Castor based database mapping onto local
                databases which were synchronized across all local databases within the 4 layers of
                clusters as well as a master database.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Connectivity to the medical aid administrators was done by having proprietary connector
                components open separate sessions for the the individual requests.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Load balancing was done through home-grown load balancers requesting threads from
                home-grown thread pools. Object pools where otherwise not used.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>
