<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-20 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Elaboration</title>


    <para> During the elaboration phase one deepens ones understanding of the problem domain and
        establishes an architectural foundation for the system, taking into account the use cases
        and the system constraints (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> architectural or performance constraints).
        A detailed project plan should be developed and the high-risk problems should be solved
        within the context of a demonstrable prototype. The stake holders should be convinced that
        the proposed architecture and project plan can be used to develop the complete system. </para>

    <section>
        <title>Deliverables of the elaboration phase</title>
        <para> The deliverables of the inception phase typically include <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A <emphasis>refined business case</emphasis>. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A <emphasis>virtually complete use case model</emphasis> containing
                        typically 80% of the use cases with detailed descriptions of the use cases.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> The <emphasis>requirements specification</emphasis> should be refined
                        including the functional as well as the non-functional requirements and
                        constraints. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A description of the <emphasis>proposed system architecture</emphasis>.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A prototype demonstrating the <emphasis>architecture</emphasis>. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A <emphasis>revised risk list</emphasis>. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A <emphasis>project plan</emphasis> showing the evaluation criteria for
                        each iteration. The project plan should cover the construction plan in some
                        detail and the credibility of the estimates should be demonstrated. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A preliminary <emphasis>user manual</emphasis> helps keeping the focus on
                        the user requirements. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>The evaluation criteria for the elaboration phase</title>
        <para> The evaluation criteria for the elaboration phase are: <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Is the vision of the product stable? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Is the architecture stable? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Is there an executable prototype which demonstrates how the major risk
                        elements have been resolved? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Is the plan for the construction phase sufficiently detailed and accurate
                        and are the estimates credible? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Do the actual expenditures for this phase compare well with the planned
                        expenditure?</para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>


</section>
