<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- @deprecated --><ns2295:section xmlns:ns2295="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2se.networking.ipAddressesAndTheInetAddressClass">
    
    <ns2296:title xmlns:ns2296="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">IP addresses and the InetAddress class</ns2296:title>

<ns2297:para xmlns:ns2297="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">A location on the internet is identified by an IP address. The IP
address is currently a 32 bit number (the next version of IP
defines IPv6 which provides an address space of 128 bits which
supports more than 3 x 10^38 IP addresses). This number is
usually written in dotted decimal notation (<ns2298:abbrev xmlns:ns2298="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">e.g.</ns2298:abbrev> 152.106.50.27).
In this notation the 32 bits are divided into 4 bytes and the
decimal representation of the bytes is written with dots separating
the bytes. Since it is difficult to remember an IP address the
internet has adopted a <ns2299:emphasis xmlns:ns2299="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">domain name system</ns2299:emphasis> (DNS) which
associates domain names with an IP address.</ns2297:para>

<ns2300:para xmlns:ns2300="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The InetAddress class encapsulates IP addresses. It supports both,
numeric IP addresses and hostnames. It contains a number of methods
for performing operations on IP addresses. The method 
    <ns2301:literal xmlns:ns2301="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">getLocalHost()</ns2301:literal> is used to obtain the <ns2302:literal xmlns:ns2302="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">InetAddress</ns2302:literal> of the
local host, <ns2303:emphasis xmlns:ns2303="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="bf">getByName()</ns2303:emphasis> can be used to obtain the 
    <ns2304:literal xmlns:ns2304="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">InetAddress</ns2304:literal> given a host name,  <ns2305:literal xmlns:ns2305="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">getAddress()</ns2305:literal> returns the IP
address as a string (in dotted decimal notation) and  
<ns2306:literal xmlns:ns2306="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">getHostName()</ns2306:literal> gets the host name for that address.</ns2300:para>

<ns2307:para xmlns:ns2307="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The following little <ns2308:emphasis xmlns:ns2308="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Java</ns2308:emphasis> application performs the equivalent
of the <ns2309:literal xmlns:ns2309="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">nslookup</ns2309:literal> (or <ns2310:literal xmlns:ns2310="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">dig</ns2310:literal>) command(s) supplied with most
operating systems. It takes a host name argument, and
returns the IP address for that host name.</ns2307:para>

    <ns2311:para xmlns:ns2311="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns2312:programlisting xmlns:ns2312="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" parse="text" href="JavasNSLookup.java"/>
    </ns2312:programlisting>
    </ns2311:para>

<ns2313:para xmlns:ns2313="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Below we show the output for two host names:</ns2313:para>
<ns2314:para xmlns:ns2314="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns2315:programlisting xmlns:ns2315="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
java JavasNSLookup sun.com
Host name: sun.com
IP address: 192.9.9.1.

java JavasNSLookup www.SolmsTraining.co.za
Host name: www.SolmsTraining.co.za
IP address: 152.106.50.27.
</ns2315:programlisting></ns2314:para>
    
    <!-- TODO: Add more about IPv6 -->
    
</ns2295:section>