<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns2407:section xmlns:ns2407="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2se.networking.sockets">

    <ns2408:title xmlns:ns2408="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Sockets</ns2408:title>

<ns2409:para xmlns:ns2409="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">A socket represents a connection point for two-way communication in
a network. Sockets may or may not implement FIFO (First In First
Out) transport. A socket is identified by two attributes, an 
<ns2410:emphasis xmlns:ns2410="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">IP address</ns2410:emphasis> representing the location of the destination computer
and a port number specifying the port of the destination computer
through which the communication is performed.</ns2409:para>

<ns2411:para xmlns:ns2411="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns2412:emphasis xmlns:ns2412="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Java</ns2412:emphasis> supplies three kinds of sockets. <ns2413:emphasis xmlns:ns2413="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="bf">Socket</ns2413:emphasis>s are used
for establishing a TCP/IP connection for connection-oriented
information exchange. <ns2414:emphasis xmlns:ns2414="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="bf">DatagramSocket</ns2414:emphasis>s are used for
connectionless UDP/IP communication (<ns2415:abbrev xmlns:ns2415="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns2415:abbrev> for sending and
receiving <ns2416:emphasis xmlns:ns2416="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="bf">DatagramPacket</ns2416:emphasis>s). Both of these sockets support
two-way communication. Finally <ns2417:emphasis xmlns:ns2417="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Java</ns2417:emphasis> uses <ns2418:emphasis xmlns:ns2418="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="bf">ServerSocket</ns2418:emphasis>s
for accepting incoming connection requests. They listen for
incoming connection requests and when a client tries to establish a
connection with the server, they create an ordinary <ns2419:emphasis xmlns:ns2419="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Socket</ns2419:emphasis>
attached to the client's computer through which the server
receives/sends information from/to the client.</ns2411:para>
    
</ns2407:section>