<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns1671:section xmlns:ns1671="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.tecnologies.java.j2se.java2D.exercises">
    
    <ns1672:title xmlns:ns1672="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Exercises</ns1672:title>

<ns1673:itemizedlist xmlns:ns1673="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
   <ns1674:listitem xmlns:ns1674="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns1675:para xmlns:ns1675="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Write a drawing application containing a panel of buttons (in a
        detachable tollbar) allowing
        the user to draw a collection of standard shapes. Initially support
        only lines, rectangles and ovals. After completing the remainder
        of the non-optional exercises of this chapter come back to this 
        exercise and add the remaining shapes. Supply tooltips with your
        buttons.</ns1675:para></ns1674:listitem>
  <ns1676:listitem xmlns:ns1676="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns1677:para xmlns:ns1677="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Add functionality for changing the color and stroke between graphics
        objects.</ns1677:para></ns1676:listitem>
  <ns1678:listitem xmlns:ns1678="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns1679:para xmlns:ns1679="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Support filled shapes. Initially support only filling of shapes with
        solid colors. In the second round support filling with color 
        gradients, patterns and support transparency.</ns1679:para></ns1678:listitem>
  <ns1680:listitem xmlns:ns1680="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns1681:para xmlns:ns1681="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Support persistence. This should be trivial. You simply save your
        collection of shapes via <ns1682:emphasis xmlns:ns1682="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">ObjectOutputStream.writeObject()</ns1682:emphasis>
        and allow retrieving a collection via 
        <ns1683:emphasis xmlns:ns1683="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">ObjectInputStream.readObject()</ns1683:emphasis>. You should add a menu for
        this part of the exercise.</ns1681:para></ns1680:listitem>
  <ns1684:listitem xmlns:ns1684="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns1685:para xmlns:ns1685="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Support object selection and removal (moving and resizing if you
        are amibitions). This is an optional exercise for those who feel 
        humiliated by the previous exercises.</ns1685:para></ns1684:listitem>
  <ns1686:listitem xmlns:ns1686="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns1687:para xmlns:ns1687="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Support insertion of graphics images.</ns1687:para></ns1686:listitem>
  <ns1688:listitem xmlns:ns1688="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns1689:para xmlns:ns1689="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Support standard image convolutions (edge detection, posteriztaion,
        sharpening, blurring, etc.). For this exercise it is advisabe that you
        support object selection first.</ns1689:para></ns1688:listitem>
  <ns1690:listitem xmlns:ns1690="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns1691:para xmlns:ns1691="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Support text insertion with as much functionality as you see fit.</ns1691:para></ns1690:listitem>
  <ns1692:listitem xmlns:ns1692="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns1693:para xmlns:ns1693="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Support Printing.</ns1693:para></ns1692:listitem>
</ns1673:itemizedlist>    
</ns1671:section>