<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>State Based versus Services Oriented Architectures</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>state based architecture</primary><secondary>versus services oriented architecture</secondary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>services oriented architecture</primary><secondary>versus state based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
        On first sight one may get the impression that state based and services oriented architectures are
        very similar. But on closer look the differences become apparent.
    </para>
    <para>
        The core differences are
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Increased flexibility and reliability around business processes</title>
                <para>
                    <indexterm><primary>flexibility</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>reliability</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>services oriented architecture</primary></indexterm>
                    In SOA the end points for service providers are defined via partner links. The
                    <indexterm><primary>partner</primary><secondary>link</secondary></indexterm>
                    services from which the business process are assembled are ultimately linked
                    to such service end points. This results in stronger coupling and may lead to
                    <indexterm><primary>coupling</primary></indexterm>
                    reduced reliability.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>No centralization of business process information</title>
                <para>
                    <indexterm><primary>services oriented architecture</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>business process</primary></indexterm>
                    The business process in services oriented architectures is localized within the
                    business process definition (usually in BPEL) published to a business process
                    <indexterm>
                        <primary>BPEL</primary>
                        <see><indexterm><primary>business process execution language</primary></indexterm></see>
                    </indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>business process execution language</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>state based architecture</primary></indexterm>
                    execution engine. In SBA there is no such localization of the business process.
                    This adds significantly to the conceptual and practical complexity, but it also
                    <indexterm><primary>complexity</primary></indexterm>
                    facilitates a more cooperative model around business process design and does
                    <indexterm><primary>business process design</primary><secondary>cooperative</secondary></indexterm>
                    not require that any individual needs to know all aspects of the business process.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Messaging and data treated symmetrically</title>
                <para>
                    <indexterm><primary>messaging</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>data</primary></indexterm>
                    SBA does not differentiate between messages and other data objects. They are treated completely
                    symmetrically.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Provision of scalable, high-performance, durable data grid</title>
                <para>
                    <indexterm><primary>scalable</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>durable</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>high-performance</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>data</primary><secondary>grid</secondary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>state based architecture</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>services oriented architecture</primary></indexterm>
                    SOA does not provide an infrastructure for any durable data (other than the messages).
                    SBA on the other hand provides a high-performance, scalable and durable data grid
                    which facilitates persistence across a distributed data store.
                    <indexterm><primary>persistence</primary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>data</primary><secondary>store</secondary></indexterm>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    
