<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Applicability of class diagrams within business analysis</title>
    <para> Class diagrams are primarily used in business analysis for three things: <indexterm>
            <primary>class</primary>
            <secondary>diagram</secondary>
            <tertiary>business analysis</tertiary>
        </indexterm>
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para> To specify the information structure of data objects which need to be
                    captured, communicated and/or persisted. <indexterm>
                        <primary>data</primary>
                        <secondary>objects</secondary>
                    </indexterm>
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> To specify the core of services contracts for service providers required for
                    a business process. <indexterm>
                        <primary>contract</primary>
                        <secondary>service</secondary>
                    </indexterm>
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> To document organizational structure. <indexterm>
                        <primary>organization</primary>
                        <secondary>structure</secondary>
                    </indexterm>
                </para>
            </listitem>
        </orderedlist>
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Documenting the structure of information entities</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm>
                <primary>class</primary>
                <secondary>diagram</secondary>
                <tertiary>information entity</tertiary>
            </indexterm> A class diagram can be used to specify the information content of domain
            objects like an order in a technology neutral way. This information structure would be
            independent of whether the information is to be captured via a paper form, a web form or
            an XML data structure submitted via a web service. The data structure would also be
            independent of any database structure. <indexterm>
                <primary>data</primary>
                <secondary>structure</secondary>
            </indexterm>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Class diagrams for SLAs</title>
        <para> Class diagrams with interfaces and constraints can be used to specify the core of an
            SLA. The interface would specify the services which must be provided, the information
            exchanged, and potentially the pre- and post-conditions for each service. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Documenting the structural elements of an organization</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm>
                <primary>class</primary>
                <secondary>diagram</secondary>
                <tertiary>organizational structure</tertiary>
            </indexterm> Class and object diagrams can also be used to document the structural
            elements of an organization including <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> the organizational components and the services they provide, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> the portals through which clients request services from the organization,
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> the reporting channels within the organization, and </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> other communication channels within the organization and those to
                        external service providers and observers. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

</section>
