<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         version="5.0"
         xml:id="resources.information.solms.training.courses.courseList">

  <title>List of courses</title>
  <para>
    We present a wide range of courses that cover non-proprietary object-oriented and service-oriented 
    technologies, as well as analysis and design courses that cover requirements analysis, 
    business process design and architecture.
  </para>
  <para>
         <orderedlist>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Advanced Java</title>
                  <para>
                     This course is aimed at experienced candidates who have mastered the basic Java language, and want to 
                     expand their skills by gaining an advanced understanding of object-oriented and language concepts.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Architecture</title>
                  <para>
                     Candidates will learn how to specify and understand architectural requirements and how to design, document and
                     validate an architecture. Commonly used reference architectures like Java-EE, SOA and Microsoft.Net are discussed
                     in some detail, explaining how these address commonly encountered quality requirements for enterprise systems.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Business Process Specification using WS-BPEL</title>
                  <para>
                     This course covers BPEL execution engines, business process specification in WE-BPEL and
                     deploying and managing BPEL based processes.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Business Analysis using UML and URDAD</title>
                  <para>
                     This course covers technology neutral business process design and requirements
                     specification using the Unified Modeling Language (UML) and 
                     Use-Case, Responsibility Driven Analysis and Design (URDAD) methodology.
                </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Client-Side Presentation Layer: HTML, XML, CSS and JavaScript</title>
                  <para>
                     This course is aimed at candidates who would like to become
                     front-end and web developers.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Designing and Implementing SOA-based solutions</title>
                  <para>
                     Candidates will learn about both the technology-neutral and architectural aspects of SOA, 
                     and JBI (Java Business Integration), the Java-based standard for SOA frameworks. We also cover
                     implementing diverse business processes using BPEL, and many practical and best-practises aspects
                     of Services-Oriented Architecture.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Enterprise Integration</title>
                  <para>
                     This course covers approaches, technologies and architectures that enable the integration of
                     components and systems. 
                     It covers XML, web services, messaging, RMI, CORBA, JCA, Service Oriented Architectures as an
                     integration architecture.          
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Enterprise JavaBeans</title>
                  <para>
                     This course is aimed at enterprise business-logic developers who wish to
                     develop and deploy business objects within a Java EE environment. 
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Java EE Presentation Layer: The Servlets API, JSP and JSF</title>
                  <para>
                     This course is aimed at candidates who would like to develop web-based
                     presentation layers for Java EE systems.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Java Application Client</title>
                  <para>
                     This course covers GUI development using Swing and JavaFX, calling business services and
                     application distribution using Java Web-Start.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Java Media</title>
                  <para>
                     This course covers processing still images, video streams, sound and speech using Java2D,
                     Java3D,  JavaSound, JavaSpeech and JMF (the Java Media Framework).
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Java Skills Upgrader</title>
                  <para>
                     This course is aimed at candidates who are already comfortable 
                     in developing in Java, but who want to upgrade their skills to include a thorough
                     understanding of the latest (version 1.4, 5 and 6) additions to the Java programming 
                     language.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>
                     Model-Driven Development using UML and URDAD
                  </title>
                  <para>
                     Candidates reviews technology neutral design using UML and URDAD and 
                     shows how to perform the technology mappings onto  Java-EE and SOA based architectures
                     and technologies.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Object-Oriented Analysis and Design using UML and URDAD</title>
                  <para>
                     This course covers UML-2 with a focus on model driven development.
                     Candidates learn how to take use case based requirements through technology neutral
                     design and how to perform typical technology mappings.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Object-Oriented Programming in ANSI-C</title>
                  <para>
                     This course provides a solid coverage of software development in
                     ANSI-C, covering not only standard C development, but also
                     coverage of how one can do full object-oriented software development
                     in ANSI-C, useful in certain environments (such as certain 
                     embedded controllers) which do not have a C++ compiler available.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Object-Oriented Programming in C++</title>
                  <para>
                     This course is aimed at candidates who would like to perform software development 
                     in C++, adhering strictly to the ANSI-C++ standard.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Organizational Architecture</title>
                  <para>
                     This course looks how and organizational architecture is designed to realize an organizations vision 
                     and to provide an infrastructure which ensures that the organizational qualities are realized across 
                     the business processes deployed within this architecture. It looks at strategies which can be deployed 
                     to realize the organization's qualities and proven architectural patterns and examines how the 
                     architectural strategies and patterns can be combined to define a suitable architecture for an organization.            
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Patterns</title>
                  <para>
                     Patterns are generic, re-usable design or architectural solution components, each addressing a specific
                     design or architectural goal. This course covers the classical design patterns and then
                     continues with patterns for concurrent and distributed systems including commonly used Java-EE patterns.
                     Finally the course discusses common architectural patterns. 
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Practical UML and URDAD based modeling using MagicDraw</title>
                  <para>
                    This course aims to address the practicalities of performing UML and URDAD based analysis and business process
                    design within a UML tool. It covers model organization, model validation, documentation generation and other
                    topics.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
        
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Project Management</title>
                  <para>
                     This course targets current and aspiring project managers who would like to be able to effectively
                     manage projects in the context of modern, iterative and model-driven software development methodologies.
                     It provides an understanding of URDAD for technology neutral business process design as well as
                     an understanding of the role of architecture and technology mapping.
                     The course covers estimation, planning, risk management, status assessment and reporting. Additionally
                     candidates will receive a conceptual understanding of widely used technologies, like J2EE, SOA, .Net, XML, Web Services, ..., 
                     their benefits and risks as well as typical application domains for them.
                   </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>

            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Programming in Java</title>
                  <para>
                     This course is aimed at candidates with little programming experience 
                     who want to be able to fill a junior Java developer position. 
                     Candidates will develop solid Java development skills, and the core 
                     object-oriented concepts are entrenched.
                   </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>

            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>Programming Mobile Devices with Java ME</title>
                  <para>
                     This course is aimed at developers of applications for limited devices such as
                     mobile phones and PDAs, and integrating them with existing infrastructure
                     and systems.
                  </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>XML</title>
                  <para>
                     This course is aimed at candidates who want to gain a solid understanding
                     and become proficient in many aspects of the eXtensible Markup Language.
                     This includes understanding the syntax, authoring documents, making use of 
                     and writing vocabularies, validation, transformation, querying, styling and display.
                   </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
               <formalpara>
                  <title>XML and Web Services with Java</title>
                  <para>
                      This course is aimed at candidates who aim to process XML from Java
                      and who want to implement web services or web service clients using
                      Java.
                   </para>
               </formalpara>
            </listitem>

         </orderedlist>
      </para>
</section>