<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-20 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Person hours per use case point</title>


    <para> The use case points method uses <emphasis>person hours per use case point</emphasis> to
        estimate the person hours for the project. It recommends to use different values depending
        on the risk level of the project. </para>

    <section>
        <title>Environmental risk categories</title>
        <para> By default the use case points methodology defines 3 environmental risk categories
            and suggests to use a different value for the person hours per use case points for each
            of these. </para>
        <para> The risk categories are determined by counting <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> the number of risk environmental factors with positive weighting with a
                        relevance value of 2 or less, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> the number of risk environmental factors with negative weighting with a
                        relevance value of 4 or more </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist> and summing them up. </para>
        <para> Projects with <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> 2 or less environmental risk areas are seen as low environmental risk,
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> 3-4 environmental risk areas are seen as average environmental risk, and
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> 5 or more environmental risk factors are grouped within a high
                        environmental risk category. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>


    <section>
        <title>Default values for the person hours per use case point</title>
        <para> The use case points methodology provides default person hours per use case point for
            different environmental risk categories. These are shown in <xref
                linkend="estimation.useCasePoints.hoursPerUseCasePoints_table"/>. </para>
        <table xml:id="estimation.useCasePoints.hoursPerUseCasePoints_table">
            <title>Person hours per use case points for different envrionmental risk categories</title>
            <tgroup cols="2">
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>
                            <para>Total count environmental risk areas</para>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <para>Person hours per use case point</para>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry>
                            <para>low environmental risk</para>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <para>20 hours/UCP</para>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>
                            <para>average environmental risk</para>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <para>28 hours/UCP</para>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry>
                            <para>high environmental risk</para>
                        </entry>
                        <entry>
                            <para>36 hours/UCP</para>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
        <note>
            <para> In the use-case point method the <emphasis>productivity measure</emphasis> is
                person hours per use case point. </para>
        </note>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Callibrating the use case points methodology</title>
        <para> The person hours per use case points represent the callibration factor for the use
            case points algorithm. These are typically adjusted according to past experience.
        </para>
    </section>

</section>
