<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Quality requirements</title>
    <para>
        It is essential for REMIG to provide good quality of services. The following quality requirements are important to the business
        <itemizedlist>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Reliability</title>
                <para>
                    It is of utmost importance for REMIG to be able to provide electricity and the support services around
                    electricity provision with a high level or reliability. The architecture of the organization and the systems
                    supporting the business should thus be designed such that REMIG is able to reliably realize its contractual
                    obligations and customer expectations. In particular, REMIG's aims to offer reliable
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            provision of electricity,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            metering and reporting,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            billing and collection, and
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            infrastructure management including realibility around repairing faults.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Cost</title>
                <para>
                    It is important for REMIG to be able to provide electricity and a competitative rate.                    
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Scalability</title>
                <para>
                    Currently REMIG has about 10 000 clients and processes around 600 database queries per second. REMIG expects to grow the business
                    by another 2000 clients within 2007 and is aiming to maintain rapid growth for the foreseeable future. The organizational
                    and systems architecture hosting REMIG's business processes need to be scalable in order to be able to accommodate the
                    expected growth rate.
                    In addition, REMIG is aiming to grow its business into other areas of the world including Southern Africa and potentially Eastern Europe.
                    The organizational and systems architecture must be able to cater for a global services offering.
                </para>
                    
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Flexibility</title>
                <para>
                    The following aspects of REMIG's business all require a high level of flexibility:
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            REMIG is offering services across various countries, each with their own laws and regulations 
                            around invoicing, taxation, reporting and collection. Furthermore, each of these countries has different banking
                            infrastructures, different grids and different electricity producers.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            REMIG clients are predominantly from developing countries where laws and regulations change quite
                            frequently.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            REMIG is still growing its business and its domain of services it offers to its clients. The organizational and
                            systems architecture must thus be able to accommodate frequent changes and additions to the business
                            processes they host.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            REMIG interfaces a lot with technology. Metering technologies evolve quite rapidly. The technologies used by
                            REMIG's clients, service providers (e.g. Eskom) and the banks can be expected to evolve. REMIG's infrastructure
                            must be flexible enough to be able to handle such technology changes gracefully and cost-effectively.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Performance</title>
                <para>
                    Though performance is perhaps less critical than scalability and the ability to handle load, it is still relevant, particularly
                    around the interactive client interfaces (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> web interfaces) and can contribute significantly to
                    customer satisfaction.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Ingenuity</title>
                <para>
                    REMIG is aiming to grow its business, not only through reliable, cost effective, scalable service offerings, but also through
                    innovation. The organizational structure must be such that it encourages and supports innovation, particularly in the domain
                    of identifying new services or ways in which business processes can be improved.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    
            