<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Evolving an organization towards a SOE</title>
    <para>
        When evolving an organization towards a SOE one needs to have an incremental plan which
        grows the required competencies and culture within the organization and which reduces the
        risk of the transformation process. A typical sequence of steps would include the following
        steps:
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                Formulate SOE vision for the organization.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Establish a proof of concept for business case for SOE.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Communicate SOE vision and start growing an SOE culture.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Source architects who are able to design a suitable SOE architecture for the organization
                and to setup a plan for the incremental migration towards the SOE.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Train business analysts in performing technology neutral business process design
                using a standard modeling language (e.g. UML) and a suitable analysis and design
                methodology (e.g. URDAD).
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Start building up a business model repository which hosts services contracts
                and the technology neutral
                business process designs for the various services across levels of granularity.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Define policies for security, service publication and governance.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Develop skills for service publication and start publishing services.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Integrate applications and business units via an Enterprise Services Bus (ESB),
                without yet putting the processes themselves on the enterprise bus.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Define policies for external service provider selection and oversight.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Define and implement infrastructure for for SOE/SOA based business process execution.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Move business processes out of systems into the business process execution environment.        
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Move focus onto continuous business process optimization.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Itroduce dynamic service provider selection.                
            </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
    </para>
</section>    