<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.namespaces.examples.htmlMap.htmlMap"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Route coordinates within a web page</title>
    
    <para>
        Let's say a (fictitious) widely used standard
        arises to provide <emphasis>routing way points</emphasis> to software, 
      such as that in your car, to provide navigation assistance.
    </para>
    <para>
        It makes sense to establish such a standard using XML, using XML Schema to define the vocabulary, and placing that
        vocabulary in a namespace. Instead of a web page providing 'human-readable-only' directions in the form of a picture, 
        it can embed the markup directly into a XHTML web page. The web browser could use a plugin to render a picture on
        the client-side, but it may also provide services to download the directions to your cellphone or GPS navigator. Furthermore, simply browsing
        to the page with your car's web browser will add the two routes to your preset navigation routes, using the embedded
        descriptions to make it easy to select while driving. Such a page could look as follows:
    </para>
    <para>
        <programlisting language="xml">
<xi:include href="visitUs.xhtml" parse="text"/>
        </programlisting>
    </para>
    <para>
        The tags from the <literal>map</literal> namespace are inserted into the XHTML document. They are, however, unaware
        of XHTML, and can easily embedded into any other XML information set. Though this type of integration may seem far
        off, it is already being used to embed <emphasis>MathML</emphasis> (Mathematical equations) and <emphasis>SVG</emphasis>
        (Scalable Vector Graphics) into web pages. Similarly, <emphasis>RDF</emphasis> (The Resource Description Framework) is
        an XML vocabulary that defines semantic relationships between entities (in order to give <emphasis>meaning</emphasis> to
        them that computers can understand). RDF tags can be 'sprinkled' into XHTML documents
        to define these relationships, even though RDF itself is unaware of XHTML, and vice-versa.
    </para>
    
</section>
