<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <para> 
        Risk management includes the processes for identifying, analyzing and responding to risk. 
    </para>
    <section>
        <title>What is risk?</title>
        <para> Risk is an uncertainty which threatens the goals, budget and time tables of a
            project. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Risk and opportunity</title>
        <para> Risk is not solely an undesirable factor in projects. Risk and opportunity are
            closely related. In both cases there is the lack of knowledge of future events. Risk is
            the possibility of detrimental outcomes, while opportunity is the possibility of a
            favorable outcome. </para>
        <para> As such, it is seldom possible to pursue opportunities without exposing oneself to
            risk and often one finds that <emphasis>the greater the opportunity, the greater the
                risk.</emphasis>
        </para>
        <para> One of the aims of project management is to manage the project in such a way that
            most of the uncertainty provides opportunities and to minimize that part of the
            uncertainty manifests itself as risk. </para>
        <section>
            <title>A simple example</title>
            <para> Assume you could tender for a project and receive revenue <literal>x</literal>.
                Assume that there is no risk and the cost for the project is also
                <literal>x</literal>. In this case there is no risk, but also no opportunity. </para>
            <para> Assume now that your most probable cost is <literal>x</literal>, but that there
                is a probability distribution around that most probable value. If the expectation
                value for the project cost is below the most probable value (as it could be for
                non-symetric probability distributions), then you can expect, on average, to make
                some profit, though only if you are prepared to take the risk of making a loss. </para>
            <para> Furthermore, even if the probability distribution was symmetric to start off with
                (such that the most probable and the expectation values are equal), then one could
                still potentially manage the risk in order to change the probability distribution in
                one's favour. </para>
        </section>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Risk management steps</title>
        <para> Project management will have to typically manage processes for <orderedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Identifying risks.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Assessing and quantifying identified risks.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Developing a response strategies to identified risks.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>A process for tracking the perceived risk and responding to changes in the
                        perceived risk.</para>
                </listitem>
            </orderedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Deciding whether the risk should be taken</title>
        <para> When deciding whether to accept a risk within a project, one should ask oneself the
            following questions: <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> What can be lost? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> What can be gained? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> What is the relative probability of realizing the gain or loss? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Is the risk worth the opportunity? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Can one introduce any contingency measures to mitigate the potential
                        loss? </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <para> Other aspects which will influence the decision of whether taking a risk is justified
            or not include <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Whether one has a good understanding of the risk or not,
                        <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> the amount and quality of information available.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Whether one is able to measure the consequences or not -- the
                        consequences may include negative publicity consequences. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Whether there acceptable alternatives? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Whether one has been able to make the project funder comfortable with the
                        risk. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Risk reduction</title>
        <para> Over time, as the project progresses and the individual risk factors are mitigated,
            the project risk gradually reduces. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Good decision versus good outcomes</title>
        <para> Decisions regarding risk are always done with incomplete information -- otherwise
            there would be no risk. Resultant failure does not necessarily mean that the decisions
            made were incorrect, given the information available at the time. Conversely, success
            may at times be achieved even if some bad decisions regarding risk were made. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Best practices</title>
        <para>

            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Include risk management processes in all phases of the project life
                        cycle. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Aim to address risks early in the project (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> through
                        prototyping). </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Effectively communicate risks to stake holders. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>



</section>
