<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>

<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">

    <title> Ubuntu</title>

    <para> Ubuntu in relatively new to the linux world, founded by Mark Shuttleworth and it first
        launch in September 2004 it the most popular linux distribution by far. The reasons for its
        success its that it is easy to use, but mostly as the project came after many linux open
        source projects. It provided the project a basis of leaning why the other projects failed </para>


    <para> It is built upon the unstable branch of Debian. It comes in different editions that
        target specific users and special usage such as Kubuntu comes with KDE instead of Gnome,
        Ubuntu Studio edition for graphic enthusiast and professionals and there is also Ubuntu
        Server editions for server computing it comes basic server application like mysql, apache
        server, etc.</para>


    <para>For its package management system (PMS) its uses Advanced Package Tool(APT) using DEB
        packages, this makes it easer for users to install applications especially when they are
        connected to the network. One of the disadvantages of Ubuntu that to some extent it is not
        fully compatible with Debian even though it is Debian based distribution.</para>
    
    <note><para>
        Ubuntu is a very apt name for an open-source, cimmunity developed operating system. It is
        a word used in the NGuni group of languages - a language group used in Southern Africa
        including Zulu, Xhosa, Swati, Hlubi, Phuthi and Ndebele. Ubuntu is difficult to translate 
        into English. Here are the results of some translation attempts: 
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                <quote><emphasis>
                    People are people through other people.
                </emphasis></quote>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                <quote><emphasis>
                    My humanity is caught up, is inextricably bound up, in what is yours. 
                </emphasis></quote>
                (Desmond Tutu)
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                <quote><emphasis>
                    I am what I am because of who we all are.
                </emphasis></quote>
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para></note>
</section>
