<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>How does one define stereotypes</title>
    <para>
        For a stereotype one needs to specify
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the package within which the stereotype is defined,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                a name for the stereotype, and 
                <note><para>
                    The package and name together define the fully qualified name for the stereotype.
                </para></note>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the target domain for the stereotype, i.e. the model elements which can be refined with the stereotype.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Specifying the target domain for the stereotype</title>
        <para>
            The target domain is specified by selecting one or more metaclasses representing the model elements
            which may be assigned the stereotype.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Stereotype attributes</title>
        <para>
            In addition one can assign properties or attributes to the stereotype. This enables one to add domain-specific
            attributes to model elements which are refined with the stereotype. 
        </para>
        <para>
            For each attribute one specifies, as usual,
            the name, the type, the access constraints (public, private, ...) and whether the relationship is a composition,
            aggregation or association relationship.
            <note><para>
                In some tools like MagicDraw call these attributes still tags although they are now called owned attributes in UML.
            </para></note>
        </para>
        
        <section>
            <title>When should one use stereotype attributes?</title>
            <para>
               Stereotype attributes are useful when there are attributes or properties which should be specified around the 
               refinement of a model element.
               For example, if one specifies that a particular element from the technology neutral model would be
               realized in a particular implementation mapping by a message driven bean, then one can use an attribute to specify
               the message queue from which the message-driven bean should be receiving the messages (e.g. service request
               messages).
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Specifying constraints for a stereotype</title>
        <para>
            Applying a stereotype to a model element may not only add some extensions via attributes (tags), but may also apply
            some constraints on the refined model element. This is done by defining constraints for the stereotype itself. The 
            constraints would typically be specified in OCL, the <emphasis>Object Constraint Language</emphasis>.
        </para>
    </section>        
    
    <section>
        <title>Abstract stereotypes</title>
        <para>
           Abstract stereotypes represent abstract concepts in the orthogonal metadata domain. For example, one could specify that
           a model element will be represented in a Java EE mapping as a session bean without yet specifying whether the concrete
           session bean chosen would be a stateful or stateless session bean.
        </para>
    </section>    
</section>    