<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>What are stereotypes?</title>
    <indexterm><primary>stereotypes</primary><secondary>what is</secondary></indexterm>
    <para>
        Stereotypes are externally assignable concepts which are orthogonal to the normal model elements. They
        typically introduce concepts which are in a different domain to the normal modeling concepts. 
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>A stereotype is a metaclass</title>
        <indexterm><primary>metaclass</primary><secondary>for stereotypes</secondary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>stereotypes</primary><secondary>are metaclasses</secondary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>metadata</primary><secondary>via stereotypes</secondary></indexterm>
        <para>
            Stereotypes are meant to provide a mechanism through which existing model elements are refined by
            applying some metadata to them.
            The metadata assigned via stereotypes should be in a separate conceptual domain to the normal model elements -
            otherwise the concept extensions should be absorbed within the normal model space.
        </para>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>URDAD</primary><secondary>why stereotypes</secondary></indexterm>
            For example, a technology neutral model may specify an interface and a class but in URDAD that interface may be used to specify
            a services contract and the class may represent an exchanged value object. To specify the URDAD specific concepts
            one can introduce stereotypes for <literal><![CDATA[<<services contract]]></literal> and
            <literal><![CDATA[<<value object]]></literal>.
        </para>
        <para>
            Since stereotypes are used to provide metadata around existing concepts, they are not used stand-alone, 
            but are always applied to other model elements.
        </para>
    </section>        
    
    <section>
        <title>The target domain of a stereotype is a metaclass</title>
        <para>
            On the one side the stereotype is a metaclass itself. On the other side it is applied to metaclasses, specifying
            how instances of the metaclass (i.e. classes) can be extended. The stereotype target is thus typically one of the
            UML language elements like <literal>Class</literal>, <literal>Package</literal>, <literal>Association</literal>
            and so on.
            <note><para>
                The UML constructs like <literal>Class</literal>, <literal>Dependency</literal>, ... are metaclasses
                from which classes are created when creating model elements.
            </para></note>
        </para>
        <para>
            A stereotype is thus associated with a metaclass which defines the target domain for the stereotype.
        </para>
    </section>   
    
    <section>
        <title>Stereotypes can add features and constraints to existing model elements</title>
        <para>
            When refining a model element with concepts from another domain one may 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    extend the model element with some additional information by adding attributes to the stereotype, and/or        
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    constrain the model element in some ways via constraints which are defined for the stereotype.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
     </section>   
</section>    