<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns39:section xmlns:ns39="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.documenting.examples.interpharm.background.outlineOfOriginalArchitecture">
  <ns40:title xmlns:ns40="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Outline of the original architecture</ns40:title>
  <ns41:para xmlns:ns41="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    The original architecture had the following core features:
    <ns42:itemizedlist xmlns:ns42="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns43:listitem xmlns:ns43="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns44:para xmlns:ns44="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        The system core was realized via a <ns45:emphasis xmlns:ns45="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">multi-layered clustered environment with
          different software layers deployed on different hardware layers</ns45:emphasis>.
        There were 4 layers with
        <ns46:itemizedlist xmlns:ns46="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          <ns47:listitem xmlns:ns47="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns48:para xmlns:ns48="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            two machines load balancing incoming requests across 
          </ns48:para></ns47:listitem>
          <ns49:listitem xmlns:ns49="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns50:para xmlns:ns50="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            a cluster of 5 front-end machines demarshaling the request and persisting the
            incoming claims which load balance the calls onto        
          </ns50:para></ns49:listitem>
          <ns51:listitem xmlns:ns51="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns52:para xmlns:ns52="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            a rules processing cluster which, in turn, load balances the preprocessed
            requests
          </ns52:para></ns51:listitem>
          <ns53:listitem xmlns:ns53="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns54:para xmlns:ns54="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            across a third cluster of machines which marshaled the preprocessed medical aid
            claims onto messages for the individual medical aid administrators.
          </ns54:para></ns53:listitem>
        </ns46:itemizedlist>
      </ns44:para></ns43:listitem>
      <ns55:listitem xmlns:ns55="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns56:para xmlns:ns56="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns57:emphasis xmlns:ns57="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Intra-layer communication</ns57:emphasis> was done via asynchronous XML messages.
        The original synchronous request was thus internally mapped onto asynchronous messages
        between the software layers, forwarded synchronously to the medical aid administrator,
        and returned through the layers asynchronously. For the return the asynchronous message
        was matched with the original synchronous request in order top provide a synchronous
        response.
      </ns56:para></ns55:listitem>
      <ns58:listitem xmlns:ns58="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns59:para xmlns:ns59="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Persistence was realized through a XML-Castor based database mapping onto local
        databases which were synchronized across all local databases within the 4 layers of
        clusters as well as a master database.
      </ns59:para></ns58:listitem>
      <ns60:listitem xmlns:ns60="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns61:para xmlns:ns61="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Connectivity to the medical aid administrators was done by having proprietary connector
        components open separate sessions for the the individual requests.
      </ns61:para></ns60:listitem>
      <ns62:listitem xmlns:ns62="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns63:para xmlns:ns63="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Load balancing was done through home-grown load balancers requesting threads from
        home-grown thread pools. Object pools where otherwise not used.
      </ns63:para></ns62:listitem>
    </ns42:itemizedlist>
  </ns41:para>
</ns39:section>