<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Process Priorities</title>
    <para>
        Linux supports scheduling priorities ranging from a maximum priority -20 (minimum niceness)
        to the lowest scheduling priority of +19 (maximum niceness). 
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Requesting a priority for a job via <command>nice</command></title>
        <para>
            If you start a process without requesting a particular priority, it gets the default priority, 0.          
            Normal users can decrease the priority (increase the niceness) by starting a process with
            the <command>nice</command> command:
            <cmdsynopsis><command>
                nice -10 find / -name *.java > javaFiles.txt
            </command></cmdsynopsis>
        </para>
        <para>
            As a super-user, you can specify a priority which is higher than the default priority. For example,
            to sort the files names found with the previous command in a process with a niceness of -5:
            <cmdsynopsis><command>
                nice --5 srt javaFiles.txt javaFilesSorted.txt          
            </command></cmdsynopsis>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Changing the priority of a running process with <command>renice</command></title>
        <para>
            Linux also enables you to modify the priority of a running process. For this you will need the
            process id (PID). The process id may be obtained as usual via <command>ps</command>:
            <cmdsynopsis><command>
                ps -e | grep srt      
            </command></cmdsynopsis>
            and the renice command is run with the new niceness and the process id via
            <cmdsynopsis><command>
                renice +10 11111    
            </command></cmdsynopsis>
        </para>
        <para>
            There are a few constraints on <command>renice</command>:
            <orderedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    Users can renice only the processes they own. Only super-users can renice
                    other processes.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Users can only decrease the priority of a process via renice. To increase a priority
                    (even after having decreased yourself), you need to be a super-user.
                </para></listitem>
            </orderedlist>
            
        </para>
    </section>
    
    
</section>
