<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    xml:id="components.technologies.www.http.response.5xxServerError.5xxServerError">
        <title>Server Error - 5xx</title>
        <para>
                 Response status codes beginning with the digit "5" indicate cases in which the server is aware that 
                 it has erred or is incapable of performing the request. Except when responding to a HEAD request, the 
                 server should include an entity containing an explanation of the error situation, and whether it is 
                 a temporary or permanent condition. User agents should display any included entity to the user. 
                 These response codes are applicable to any request method.
        </para>
        <para>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>500 Internal Server Error</title>
                        <para>
                              The server encountered an unexpected condition which prevented it from fulfilling the request.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>501 Not Implemented</title>
                        <para>
                             The server does not support the functionality required to fulfill the request. This is the appropriate 
                             response when the server does not recognize the request method and is not capable of supporting 
                             it for any resource.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>502 Bad Gateway</title>
                        <para>
                             The server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, received an invalid response from the upstream server 
                             it accessed in attempting to fulfill the request.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>503 Service Unavailable</title>
                        <para>
                             The server is currently unable to handle the request due to a temporary overloading or maintenance of the server. 
                             The implication is that this is a temporary condition which will be alleviated after some delay. If known, the 
                             length of the delay may be indicated in a Retry-After header. If no Retry-After is given, the client should 
                             handle the response as it would for a 500 response.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>504 Gateway Timeout</title>
                        <para>
                             The server, while acting as a gateway or proxy, did not receive a timely response from the upstream 
                             server specified by the URI (e.g. HTTP, FTP, LDAP) or some other auxiliary server (e.g. DNS) it 
                             needed to access in attempting to complete the request.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>505 HTTP Version Not Supported</title>
                        <para>
                             The server does not support, or refuses to support, the HTTP protocol version that was used in the 
                             request message.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>            
        </para>
</section>
