<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Exercises</title>
    <orderedlist>
        <listitem><para>
            List all the processes started by a particular user (say yourself).
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
            Start a background process searching for all <literal>xml</literal> files in the root directory  and all its
            subdirectories, and kill that process again.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
            Find out how long the system has been running.
            Query the users currently  logged in, and how long they have been logged in already.  Now find out
            the details of the user, using your username (name and surname, address, ...), as well
            as the tasks launched by that user.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
            Query the current system load and the swap memory used, and determine which tasks are currently
            using the highest CPU and memory resources.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
            Schedule a task which runs at 9h00 on the next 1'st of April  which sends all users a message
            that Microsoft has just released its own Linux distribution.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
            Schedule a task which runs every Sunday evening at 23h00, which zips up the content of your
            user <filename>temp</filename> directory into a file <filename>temp.zip</filename> in 
            your home directory, and then deletes the content of the <filename>temp</filename>
            directory.
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
            Add another script to init.d which creates/overrides a file <filename>/tmp/lastBoot</filename> 
            which stores the last date/time when the system was started.
        </para></listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    
</section>
