<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Exercises</title>
    <para>
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                Create a use case diagram and do the following:
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Add a use case with one mandatory and one conditional functional requirement.        
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Specify the condition under which the conditional functional requirement needs to be met.       
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Introduce an interface for the
                        services contract for the role player responsible for realizing the use case and specify via a usage relationship that
                        when using the use case one will make use of some or other object which realizes the interface/contract.      
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Add a
                        service corresponding to the use case to the interface, specify the inputs and outputs for the service.     
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Add a class for which we will specify a business process realizing the use case. Specify that the class
                        implements/realizes your interface/contract and that the service realizes the use case.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Introduce interfaces for stake holders and specify which stake holder requires which functional requirement
                        using a dependency pointing from the stake holder to the functional requirement.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                For either the request or the response object of the service in the previous question, draw a class diagram specifying the
                data structure. Try and use
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>attributes with specified data type,</para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>derived attributes,</para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>association realtionships,</para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>aggregation relationships,</para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>composition relationships and</para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>specialization relationships.</para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Upgrade the interface in the first question into a services contract by specifying the pre- and post-conditions
                as well as the quality requirements for the service. Render these in your class diagram for the services contract.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Draw a sequence diagram for an interaction of a user with an ATM. Try and use
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        alt fragments,        
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        loop fragments, 
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        par fragments,
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        and duration constraints.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Specify a business process for buying a theatre ticket from sales.
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Create a <literal>Sales</literal> class with a <literal>buyTicket service</literal> with suitable
                        request and response objects.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Introduce interfaces (contracts) for the responsibility domains of
                        finance, tickets and reservations. 
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Create an activity diagram and assign it as behaviour for the <literal>buyTicket</literal> service
                        of <literal>Sales</literal>.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Add the activity parameter nodes for the inputs and outputs of the process.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Define a business process adding the appropriate services to the service providers you are using 
                        and using these services in call operations in your business process specification.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Add a decision node for full reservations and raise a <literal>FullyBookedException</literal>
                        under the condition that reservations reports that the presentation is fully booked.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Try and add a fork and a synchronization bar to the process.                        
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>        
        
    </para>
</section>    