<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Applicability of the blackboard pattern for systems architecture</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>blackboard pattern</primary><secondary>applicability for systems</secondary></indexterm>
        The blackboard architectural pattern has traditionally been only used in software architecture for systems
        which are responsible for solving difficult problems for which one could not write an algorithmic
        solution. Examples include
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                speech recognition systems,
                <indexterm><primary>speech recognition</primary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                airport traffic control,
                <indexterm><primary>airport</primary><secondary>traffic control</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                signal processing to detect U-boats,
                <indexterm><primary>signal</primary><secondary>processing</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                finding reusable code in a source code repository, and
                <indexterm><primary>code</primary><secondary>finding reusable</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                generating mathematical proofs for theorems.
                <indexterm><primary>mathematical proof</primary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Wikis</title>
        <para>
            A Wiki (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev>Wikipedia) is an infrastructure spanning people and systems which is 
            directly based on the blackboard architectural pattern. The Wiki itself is the blackboard or knowledge repository,
            the contributors are the experts in the experts panel and the people controlling the Wiki represent
            the controller.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Space based architectures</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm>
                <primary>space based architecture (SBA)</primary>
                <secondary>based on blackboard</secondary>
            </indexterm>
            Lately space based architectures (SBAs) are gaining a lot of attention. Space based architectures are based in
            their core on the blackboard architectural pattern. They aim to provide a platform within which one
            achieves a very high level of flexibility and scalability.
            <indexterm><primary>flexibility</primary><secondary>via SBA</secondary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>scalability</primary><secondary>via SBA</secondary></indexterm>
        </para>
        <para>
            In a space based architecture the blackboard
            itself is represented by the space which makes any events (including service request events and
            <indexterm>
                <primary>space</primary>
                <seealso><indexterm><primary>blackboard</primary></indexterm></seealso>
            </indexterm>
            events which notify the completion of certain processing steps) and any domain information available 
            in a durable and scalable way.
        </para>
        <para>
            The core features of space based architectures include
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    distributed co-hosting of all elements including processing units, and the space itself,
                    <indexterm><primary>system</primary><secondary>distributed</secondary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    no distinction between data and messages with all information being served by the space with a high level
                    of scalability and reliability,
                    <indexterm><primary>reliability</primary><secondary>via SBA</secondary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>scalability</primary><secondary>via SBA</secondary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    fully decoupled processing units which integrate via the space (the blackboard),
                    <indexterm><primary>processing unit</primary><secondary>decoupled</secondary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    and the ability of processing units to register to receive certain types of events which are submitted
                    <indexterm><primary>event</primary><secondary>registration</secondary></indexterm>
                    to the space.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    