<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    xml:id="resources.information.technologies.web.http.communicatingOnTheWeb">
    <title>Communicating on the World Wide Web</title>
    <para>
        The majority of communication on the world wide web happens between between web browsers, and
        web servers. In recent times, however, more and more computers communicate on the internet for
        purposes other than direct human consumption.
    </para>
    <para>
        When clients and servers communicate, they have no direct knowledge of the physical location and network
        route(s) to each other. HTTP is thus designed to be an immensely reliable and fault-tolerant protocol:
        The design of HTTP caters for the failure of servers, routers and/or entire networks without interrupting
        a client's browsing session. This is achieved because HTTP is a <emphasis>connectionless protocol.</emphasis>
    </para>
    <para>
        At its core, HTTP is simply ASCII text that is sent across sockets between client and server. This makes it a very
        accessible protocol that is easy to implement on many platforms and devices. The standard socket port for HTTP
        data is 80, and apart from SMTP (e-mail), most organisations do not allow other types of traffic (e.g. using 
        other ports) through corporate network boundaries.
    </para>
    </section>
