<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns6774:section xmlns:ns6774="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.javadoc.componentDescriptions.componentDescriptions">
  <ns6775:title xmlns:ns6775="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Component descriptions</ns6775:title>
  <ns6776:para xmlns:ns6776="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    In general javdoc comments are enclosed within comment blocks opened via
    <ns6777:literal xmlns:ns6777="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">/**</ns6777:literal> and closed via <ns6778:literal xmlns:ns6778="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">*/</ns6778:literal>. Text
    documentation describing a particular component (class, method or attribute) has to
    immediately precede the corresponding component:
    <ns6779:programlisting xmlns:ns6779="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 /** Zero curves are interest rate sources which are constructed by 
   * supplying the interest rate that can be realized from an anchor 
   * date to a collection of future dates.
   *
   * A zero curve can be queried for these rates as well as for forward 
   * rates and discount factors.
   */
 public class ZeroCurve implements InterestRateSource
 {
   /** The method returns the discount factor applicable for discounting
     * payments received on a particular date, back to another (value) date.
     */
     public double getDiscountFactor (Date date, Date valueDate)
     {
       ...
     }
 
     /** The compounding convention used by the curve (e.g. monthly, 
       * annual, or continuous compounding.)
       */
     protected Compounding compounding;
 }
    </ns6779:programlisting>
  </ns6776:para>
      
  <ns6780:section xmlns:ns6780="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns6781:title xmlns:ns6781="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Including standard HTML tags</ns6781:title>
        <ns6782:para xmlns:ns6782="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          Javadoc passes HTML tags through to the generated HTML file. One can thus embed
          standard HTML tags within javadoc comments. For example, if we want to include an image,
          we could simply include the corresponding HTML image tag:
<ns6783:programlisting xmlns:ns6783="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
 /** Zero curves are interest rate sources which are constructed by 
   * supplying the interest rate that can be realized from an anchor 
   * date to a collection of future dates.
   *
   * &lt;img src="zeroCurveIllustrated.png"&gt;
   *           
   * A zero curve can be queried for these rates as well as for forward 
   * rates and discount factors.
   */

</ns6783:programlisting>
        </ns6782:para>
        <ns6784:para xmlns:ns6784="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          Similarly one can include HTML lists, tables, links, etc.
        </ns6784:para>
   </ns6780:section>
</ns6774:section>