<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    
    <para>
        Estimation involves gaining a better understanding of an uncertainty, thereby narrowing down
        the uncertainty. The result of an estimation should preferably be a probability distribution for a variable
        with uncertainty. Such a probability distribution provides information about
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>the most likely result,</para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>the statistical expectation value,</para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>the variance and standard deviation, and</para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>confidence domains for the random variable.</para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        The uncertainty around activity costs is typically reduced (the probability distribution is narrowed)
        as
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the requirements details become known,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the understanding of the project risks deepen,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the resources made available to the project become known, and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                as project work is completed. 
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <para>
        Some of the cost contributors may be easy to estimate. For example, the cost of facilities used and the cost of equipment and software 
        licenses may be relatively easy to estimate. Usually the human resources cost are the more difficult to estimate. Most estimation techniques
        provide a more or less intelligent framework for educated guessing and most base the estimates either directly or indirectly on
        past experience. 
    </para>
    
    
    <section>
        <title>Why is estimation important?</title>
        <para>
            Obviously, in an environment of uncertainties, approximate costing can only be based on estimation
            of the uncertainties. Estimation is critical for
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    return on investment estimation (as otherwise the investment is not known),
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    project resourcing,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    project planning,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                   making informed decisions around risk (for example, whether to carry a risk or not),
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    budgeting and cost control, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    status reporting.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            In addition to the above, cost estimation is also necessary to make core project decisions 
            like 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    whether to outsource certain work or whether to perform the work oneself,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    whether to build a custom solution or to customize an off-the-shelf product, 
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
     </section>   

    <section>
        <title>Estimation outputs</title>
        <para>
            The estimation output should be a collection of probability distributions for the various cost contributors. These are used to
            accumulate total project costs.
            <note><para>
                Often the probability distributions are replaced by most likely values. This results however in loosing the information about
                the uncertainty of the estimate.
            </para></note>
        </para>
        
    </section>
</section>    