<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.introduction.commonUsesOfXml.xmlVocabs"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>IT-Related XML Vocabularies</title>
    <para> Of course, XML is also useful for data definition and exchange for the IT industry
        itself. It is used, among others, for transmitting service requests between systems,
        supplying configuration and environmental information to systems and describing web site
        structures and information. </para>
    <section>
        <title>The Simple Object Access protocol (SOAP)</title>
        <para>SOAP specifies an extensible protocol for exchanging messages
        between <emphasis>services</emphasis> as part of an SOA (services-oriented
        acrhitecture). It builds upon existing technologies, such as XML Schema (for
        the message format specification) and introduces a range of message
        exchange semantics, together with a formal contract specification (WSDL)
        in order to integrate heterogeneous systems.</para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>RSS (RDF Site Summary, or "Really Simple Syndication")</title>
        <para>
            An RSS "feed" contains a summary of timely information, published on a source
            such as a News Site or a Web log (Blog). It contains "headline" and "summary"
            information, as well as links pointing to the rest of the information, and may
            also contain RDF and categorisation information. Users may then use <emphasis>RSS
            aggregators</emphasis> (also called RSS readers) to automatically obtain an
            overview of the information of interest (sorted by relevance, date, etc) instead
            of manually visiting hundreds of websites.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>XMI</title>
        <para>
            XMI is a public standard used to convey the information contained in an object-oriented
            model created using the UML (Unified Modeling Language). This allows for the sharing of
            design and requirements information between several modeling toolkits, and it is even
            used by tools that generate source code in an implementation language (Java, C++) based
            on the model.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>XForms</title>
        <para>
            XForms is an extremely promising standard proposed by the W3C (and already implemented
            by some web browsers, and available in others using plugins). It is a pure vocabulary
            with which to define a user interface that creates or edits a particular piece of XML
            information. Though primarily intended for the web, where web servers can now receive
            properly structured XML from the client, instead of the archaic name-value pairs generated
            by today's web forms, XForms in itself represents a declarative way of creating a proper
            MVC (Model-View-Controller) user interface of the first order.
        </para>
        <para>
            Because it is so abstract, it can be used in any number of application or visual frameworks,
            and is already being used to develop interactive user interfaces drawn with SVG (Scalable Vector
            Graphics).
        </para>
    </section>
  <section>
    <title>RDF (The Semantic Web)</title>
    <para>
      RDF (the Resource Description Framework) introduces a more flexible alternative
      to contemporary object-orientation, and allows for the effective representation
      and deduction of <emphasis>knowledge</emphasis> based on a domain of
      information.
    </para>
    <para>
      RDF allows one to make statements about resources (which may be anything
      virtual or physical, as long as it can be identified by a URI) as well
      as establish relationships between them.
    </para>
  </section>
</section>
