<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-1-15 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Cohesion</title>
    <para>
        Cohesion is a measure of the extend to which the various design elements are tied up with one another. This is a quality
        which is partially desirable and partially non-desireable. On the one side, high cohesion results in better responsibility
        localization and hence localized maintenance. On the other side, excessive cohesion
        may impact negatively on resuse and pluggability, modifiability  and simplicity.
    </para>
    <para>
        In particular,  data cohesion which is defined as "all elements part of a defined data abstraction" 
        <citation>Need citation</citation>
        may result in deep inheritence hierarchies which have been shown to be detrimental for reuse
        <citation>Need citation</citation> and maintainability
        <citation>Need citation</citation>.
        Another example is that of excessive sequential cohesion defined as "outputs of one part form inputs to the next"
        <citation>Need citation</citation>
        may lead to excessive coupling between services and service providers
        <citation>Need citation</citation>,
        is likely to have very negative reduce both, reusability and simplicity.
        <citation>Need citation</citation>        
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Indirect cohesion metrics</title>
        <para>
            A number of measures have been introduced to directly assess the cohesion of a design.
            However
            Many different direct cohesion metrics have been developed. Many of them are based on an approach which aims to assess
            the degree of similarity of methods. However, no consensus has yet arisen on a suitable and sufficient cohesion metric            
            <citation>Etzkorn_2004_A_comparison_of_cohesion_metrics_for_object-oriented_systems</citation>.
        </para>
        <para>
            One of the most widely use cohesion metrics is the
            “Lack of COhesion in Methods (LCOM)”. It is defined as the number of methods pairs that access 
            non-overlapping sets of properties minus the number of methods pairs that access overlapping 
            sets of properties (the metric is set to zero whenever the above subtraction is negative). 
            Cohesiveness of methods within a class is considered desirable, since it promotes encapsulation. 
            Low cohesion means that a single class collects the properties that should be better located into 
            two or more subclasses. This increases complexity, thus increasing the likelihood of errors during the development process. 
            <citation>Lavazza_2005_Automated_Measurement_Of_UML_Models</citation>
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>