<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Introduction</title>
  
  <para>
    JSP documents effectively allow the developer to dynamically produce
    XML content. A JSP document is an XML document in the desired output 
    vocabulary (such as XHTML or SVG) which may contain
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>EL expressions, which outputs information obtained
        from Java objects adhering to JavaBeans conventions. EL
        is also used in some cases to <emphasis>bind</emphasis>
        user input (such as that in form fields) to properties 
        in server-side Java objects, for example in the JSF framework.
        </para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Standard tags that are not output to the client, but which rather
        control the structure and rendering behaviour of the page, such as
        repeating or conditionally rendering sections. Tags also exist to componentise
        JSP documents by importing separate JSP fragments, or even to import
        external URLs and embed their content in the page.</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Custom tags, developed by a third party, which can exhibit
        any behaviour implementable with Java.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </para>
  <para>
    When invoked (either directly by the client, or indirectly by other
    components such as Servlets) the JSP is processed by a <emphasis>JSP engine</emphasis>
    in order to render a resulting document. JSP documents are recognised
    as such by having a <literal>.jspx</literal> file extension.
  </para>
  
</section>