<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>History of UML</title>



    <para> Prior to UML a wide range of object oriented modeling languages were used. UML grew out
        of the desire to introduce a standard, methodology neutral modeling language. In the mid
        1990's <emphasis>Rational Software Cooperation</emphasis> had acquired some of the most well
        known object oriented methodologists, Jim Rumbaugh, Grady Booch and Ivar Jacobson. Rumbaugh
        was the core developer of the <emphasis>Object Modeling Technique</emphasis> (OMT), Grady
        Booch had developed the <emphasis>Booch method</emphasis> and Ivar Jacobson had developed
        the <emphasis>Object Oriented Software Engineering</emphasis> method, OOSE. Together with a
        range of organizations called the UML partners, Rumbaugh, Booch and Jacobson developed the
        Unified Modeling Language (UML) which was released in January 1997. </para>
    <para> Over time the semantic consistency of the UML was improved resulting in UML 2.0 which was
        released towards the end of 2005. UML also acquired support for specifying rules via the
        Object Constraint Language (OCL). The OCL contribution made by IBM enables UML to specify
        formal contracts for service providers. </para>
</section>
