<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Accessing implicit objects</title>
  
  <section>
    <title>Scoped attributes</title>
    <para>
      To access attributes placed in any of the scopes (page, request, session, servletContext) the
      following variables are available (as <literal>java.util.Map</literal> instances):
    </para>
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>pageScope</title>
          <para>Maps page-scoped variable names to their values</para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>requestScope</title>
          <para>Maps request-scoped variable names to their values</para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>sessionScope</title>
          <para>Maps session-scoped variable names to their values</para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <formalpara>
          <title>applicationScope</title>
          <para>Maps application-scoped variable names to their values (i.e
          the ServletContext)</para>
        </formalpara>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    <para>For example:
      <programlisting><![CDATA[
<!-- Gets the object called "orderConfirmation" from the request -->
${requestScope.orderConfirmation}

<!-- Gets the user's shopping cart from the http session -->
${sessionScope.shoppingCart}
        ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
    <note>
      <para>
        Often, the page developer may indeed not care in which scope
        an object is which needs to be referenced. In this case, the scope may simply
        by omitted, e.g. <literal>${shoppingCart}</literal>. The scopes are searched
        from the most local scope to the most global, starting with the <literal>pageScope</literal>
        and ending with the <literal>applicationScope</literal>
      </para>
    </note>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Implicit Objects</title>
      <para>
        All of the <emphasis>implicit</emphasis> objects available to JSP documents are accessible. 
        These are:
      </para>
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
          <formalpara>
            <title>param</title>
            <para>Maps a request parameter name to a single value, e.g. <literal>${param.searchTerm}</literal></para>
          </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <formalpara>
            <title>paramValues</title>
            <para>Maps a request parameter name to an array of values, used when multiple instances
            of the same request parameter name was submitted.</para>
          </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <formalpara>
            <title>header</title>
            <para>Maps a request header name to a single value, e.g. <literal>${header["User-agent"]}</literal></para>
          </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <formalpara>
            <title>headerValues</title>
            <para>Maps a request header name to an array of values, used when the same HTTP request header
            appears more than once</para>
          </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <formalpara>
            <title>cookie</title>
            <para>Maps a cookie name to a single cookie, e.g. <literal>${cookie["autoLogin"]}</literal></para>
          </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <formalpara>
            <title>initParam</title>
            <para>Maps a context initialization parameter (specified in <literal>web.xml</literal>)
              name to a single value</para>
          </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
          <formalpara>
            <title>pageContext</title>
            <para>The context for the JSP page. Provides access to various 
              objects including:
              <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                  <formalpara>
                    <title>request</title>
                    <para>The request triggering the execution of the JSP page. For example,
                    <literal>${pageContext.request.method}</literal> would indicate the
                    HTTP method used, such as GET or POST</para>
                  </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <formalpara>
                    <title>response</title>
                    <para>The response returned by the JSP page.</para>
                  </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <formalpara>
                    <title>servletContext</title>
                    <para>The context for the JSP page’s servlet and any web 
                      components contained in the same application.</para>
                  </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                  <formalpara>
                    <title>session</title>
                    <para>The HTTP session object for the client making the
                      request. For example, <literal>${pageContext.session.maxInactiveInterval}</literal>
                    would return the session time-out for the current user's session.</para>
                  </formalpara>
                </listitem>
              </itemizedlist>
            </para>
          </formalpara>
        </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </section>
  
  
</section>