<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section 
    xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" version="5.0">
    <title>SOAP-based web services</title>
    
    <para>
        The Web Services standards defines a way to publish and describe <emphasis>services</emphasis>
        via <emphasis>services contracts</emphasis>, and specifies the rules and
        semantics of exchanging messages to make use of these services. 
    </para>
    <para>
        The core web services standards are:
        <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
            <formalpara>
                <title>XML Messaging (SOAP)</title>
                <para>SOAP is a standard to achieve
                    <emphasis>strongly typed</emphasis>,
                    <emphasis>object-oriented</emphasis> message exchange (based
                    on W3C <literal>XML Schema</literal>). It defines a standard message
                    container (the SOAP envelope) as well as rules and semantics of
                    exchanging messages, errors, and metadata (headers). Messages can
                    be physically transported on any protocol or transport mechanism without 
                    changing the meaning of the message exchange.
                </para>
            </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <formalpara>
                <title>Service Description (WSDL)</title>
                <para> A formal description (or <emphasis>contract</emphasis>) of the service, which provides
                    complete information (including messages, exchange patterns,
                    data types (links to XML Schemas), and endpoint addresses) for
                    a client to make use of the service, or for a service provider
                    to realise the service.
                </para>
            </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <formalpara>
                <title>Service Registries (UDDI)</title>
                <para> A platform-independent, XML-based registry for business
                    services to be listed in.
                    <literal>UDDI</literal> is an open industry initiative
                    (sponsored by OASIS) enabling businesses to discover each
                    other's services and to define how they interact. UDDI is,
                    at this stage, the least-widely adopted of the web services
                    standards, as it assumes a business model and level of
                    interoperability which has not yet materialised. In addition,
                    the <literal>ebXML</literal> standard (also managed by OASIS)
                    encompasses a lot of functionality which overlaps with
                    <literal>UDDI</literal>, and even <literal>WSDL</literal>.
                </para>
            </formalpara>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        A large number of web services standards exist, or are being brought into existence,
        in order to achieve certain <emphasis>qualities</emphasis> of message
        exchange. These are not part of the core web services standards, and are slowly
        being adopted by different software frameworks and web services toolkits. These include
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>reliable message delivery</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>security authentication and authorisation</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>secure message delivery through encryption</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>service metadata and policies</para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    