<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>User process initialization - the <literal>init</literal> process</title>
    <para>
        The <literal>/sbin/init</literal> stage of the boot process starts the user-space processes. 
    </para>
    <para>
        The <literal>init</literal> process reads instructions from the <literal><![CDATA[/etc/inittab]]></literal> 
        run-level configuration file. This file specifies
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the processes which should be started for the boot run level including 
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        mounting of local file systems,
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        starting of text terminals, and
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        single user test terminal login.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the default run level for the system, and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the binding of run levels to run level numbers
                The common run-level configuration introcudes the following run levels:
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Run-level 1:</title>
                        <para>
                            Single user mode without networking.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Run-level 2</title>
                        <para>
                            Networking.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Run-levels 3, 4 and 5</title>
                        <para>
                            Run-level 3 is the default run level with run-levels 4 and 5 usually being mapped onto
                            run-level 3. On a desktop this default run-level usually starts the <emphasis>XWindows</emphasis>
                            server together with the window manager and desktop as well as core user services like
                            printing services, device plugin detection services, and so on.
                            On a server based system this run level would usually not start an <emphasis>XWindows</emphasis>
                            server but rather sshd, database servers, web servers, application servers,
                            mail servers, DNS and DHCP servers and so on.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Run-level 6</title>
                        <para>
                            This level is the shutdown process.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para> 
        A typical <literal>inittab</literal> file looks like this:
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
# Default runlevel.
id:3:initdefault:

# System initialization, mount local filesystems, etc.
si::sysinit:/sbin/rc sysinit

# Further system initialization, brings up the boot runlevel.
rc::bootwait:/sbin/rc boot

# Defining the run-levels
---------------------
l0:0:wait:/sbin/rc shutdown
l0s:0:wait:/sbin/halt -dhp
l1:1:wait:/sbin/rc single
l2:2:wait:/sbin/rc nonetwork
l3:3:wait:/sbin/rc default
l4:4:wait:/sbin/rc default
l5:5:wait:/sbin/rc default
l6:6:wait:/sbin/rc reboot
l6r:6:wait:/sbin/reboot -dk
#z6:6:respawn:/sbin/sulogin

# Start single-user login
-------------------------
su0:S:wait:/sbin/rc single
su1:S:wait:/sbin/sulogin

# Defining the command terminals
------------------------------
c1:12345:respawn:/sbin/agetty 38400 tty1 linux
c2:2345:respawn:/sbin/agetty 38400 tty2 linux
c3:2345:respawn:/sbin/agetty 38400 tty3 linux
c4:2345:respawn:/sbin/agetty 38400 tty4 linux
c5:2345:respawn:/sbin/agetty 38400 tty5 linux
c6:2345:respawn:/sbin/agetty 38400 tty6 linux

# SERIAL CONSOLES
#s0:12345:respawn:/sbin/agetty 9600 ttyS0 vt100
#s1:12345:respawn:/sbin/agetty 9600 ttyS1 vt100

# What to do at the "Three Finger Salute".
ca:12345:ctrlaltdel:/sbin/shutdown -r now

# Used by /etc/init.d/xdm to control DM startup.
# Read the comments in /etc/init.d/xdm for more
# info. Do NOT remove, as this will start nothing
# extra at boot if /etc/init.d/xdm is not added
# to the "default" runlevel.
x:a:once:/etc/X11/startDM.sh            
            ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
</section>    