<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
 xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.introduction.markUpLanguageHistory"
  xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <title>The History of Markup Languages</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>markup language</primary>
    <secondary>history</secondary>
  </indexterm>
  <para> A markup language provides a way of supplying
    <emphasis>metadata</emphasis> - information which describes the actual
    data. For example, in music markup has been used to supply extra information about the way in which the notes
    should be played - in particular the tempo, the volume and the feeling/atmosphere. 
  </para>
  <para> Similarly markup languages are used to supply information which describes the supplied
    information. The first formal markup language was the Generalized Markup Language (GML)
    developed by IBM in 1969. It was used to describe the structure of data sets. 
  </para>
  <para> GML gradually evolved into the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) which was
    adopted in 1986 by the International Standards Organization (ISO) as an international data
    storage and exchange standard. SGML is a very powerful markup language which has been used by
    Governments and large companies to exchange technical information. The SGML documents were often
    transformed into some readable form for publication. Note that the idea of separating content
    from presentation was already intrinsic to SGML. 
  </para>
  <para> SGML is, however, quite complex and difficult to learn. Furthermore, the tools required to
    process SGML documents were complex and hence often expensive. 
  </para>
  <para> In 1996 the Word Wide Web Consortium (W3C) started to work on a simplified SGML. Like SGML,
    it had to be extensible and should be used in a way where content is separated from
    presentation. It should, however, be much simpler than its predecessor and, in order to protect
    the investments in SGML tools, it was designed to be a subset of SGML. 
  </para>
  <para>
      The first version of the XML specification, version 1.0, was
      released in early 1998,
      and has to date only seen one minor revision (version 1.1).
  </para>
</section>
