<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
 xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.introduction.whatIsXml"
  xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>What is XML?</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>XML</primary>
    <secondary>definition of</secondary>
  </indexterm>
    <para> 
        XML, the Extensible Markup Language, is a tagged markup language for <emphasis>structured,
        self-describing</emphasis> data. As an extensible markup language, it allows for the definition of new
        markup tags (semantics). This means that, instead of prescribing a specific vocabulary for
        <abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> Web Pages or Purchase Orders, it simply defines a standard for the markup
        language itself - anybody can thus create their own vocabulary (or tags) to describe anything. 
    </para>
    <para>
        XML consists of:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    A simple and precise set of rules which can 
                    be used to express any information you can think of in a tree structure. 
                    (The XML Information Set).
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    A text-based format to represent this tree structure in a document which can 
                    either be stored in a file, transmitted over a network, transformed, displayed, etc.
                </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
  <para>
    XML is a <emphasis>public standard</emphasis>, developed and maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).
    The W3C develops inter-operable technologies (specifications, guidelines, software and tools) to
    increase the potential of the Web as a forum for information, commerce, communication and
    collective understanding. Part of the overwhelming abundance of XML can be attributed to the fact that no single
    organisation controls the standard or the associated tools.
  </para>
</section>