<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-2-18 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>How are the design activities realizing the desired design attributes embedded in URDAD?</title>
    <para>
        The single responsibility principle 
        <indexterm><primary>single responsibility principle</primary></indexterm>
        is directly enforced by grouping functional requirements into responsibility
        domains and requiring the each responsibility domain is assigned to a separate contract.
    </para>
    <para>
        The levels of granularity 
        <indexterm><primary>granularity</primary><secondary>levels of</secondary></indexterm>
        are fixed by including only those contracts to which the responsibilities for a
        particular level of granularity have been assigned. Furthermore, the level of granularity is further fixed
        be requiring that the lowest level service requests at a particular level of granularity are those which
        come from the controller for that level of granularity.
    </para>
    <para>
        The locking into services contracts 
        <indexterm><primary>contract</primary><secondary>services</secondary></indexterm>
        is enforced by directly assigning responsibility domains to contracts and
        specifying the work flow across these contracts. The URDAD design process then generates the 
        contract details and requires the specification of pre-and post-conditions as well as quality requirements.
    </para>
    <para>
        URDAD directly enforces the introduction of a work flow controller
        <indexterm><primary>controller</primary></indexterm>
        for each responsibility domain and
        each level of granularity, resulting in the localization of the business process information and decoupling
        <indexterm><primary>decoupling</primary></indexterm>
        of the service providers used in the business process.
    </para>
    <para>
        The relationship between the layers of granularity are documented through an explicit transition across
        the layers of granularity, facilitating bidirectional traceability.
        <indexterm><primary>traceability</primary></indexterm>
    </para>
    <para>
        Finally, the minimal conceptual (technology neutral) structure supporting the collaboration is projected out
        from the dynamics of the business process realizing the use case.
    </para>
</section>    
    