<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-20 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Inception</title>

    <para> During the inception phase one tries to understands the business motivation for the
        system. It is important to understand the scope of the project early in the process in order
        to get a feeling for the resources required for the project. </para>
    <para> A good place to start is to identify all the actors, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> the external
        objects which interact with the system. One should understand what they want from the system
        and how they are going to interact with the system. The result is an initial collection of
        use cases with accompanying sequence or collaboration diagrams. </para>
    <section>
        <title>The deliverables of the inception phase</title>
        <para> The deliverables typically include <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A <emphasis>vision document</emphasis> documenting the initial
                        understanding of the core system requirements, the key features and the
                        project and system constraints. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> An <emphasis>initial business case</emphasis> including the business
                        context, the success criteria from a business perspective
                        (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> increased productivity, increased sales, ...).
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A <emphasis>business model</emphasis>. This may be necessary in order to
                        facilitate an improved process for eliciting and specifying system
                        requirements. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> An <emphasis>initial use-case model</emphasis> which contains the key use
                        cases defining the high-level scope of the system. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> An <emphasis>initial risk assessment</emphasis>. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> A <emphasis>project plan</emphasis> including a the phases and
                        iterations. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> An initial <emphasis>project glossary</emphasis> explaining, to the
                        different role players, the terms used in the business and in the process
                        artifacts. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <para> After the inception phase the stakeholder should have reached agreement on project
            scope, cost estimates and schedule estimates. The project may be reconsidered or
            cancelled if consensus is not reached. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Evaluation criteria for the inception phase</title>
        <para> The evaluation criteria for this phase are: <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Is there agreement among stake holders on the project's scope and
                        cost/schedule estimates? </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Credibility of the cost and schedule estimates and risks of the
                        development process. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>The depth and breadth of the architectural prototype. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Actual expenditures for this phase versus the planned expenditure.</para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>


</section>
