<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>General causes of project failures</title>
    <para> 
        Projects can fail for a wide variety of issues. These can include environmental issues,
        project management issues, team issues and process issues. </para>

    <section>
        <title>Environmental issues</title>
        <para> Some projects are challenged due to external factors which are beyond the control of
            the project team. </para>

        <section>
            <title>Lack of client/user involvement</title>
            <para> A common cause of project failure is that of lack of client and user involvement.
                This results in <emphasis>significant requirements risk</emphasis>. The project team
                may find it difficult to know whether they are building the correct system. </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Lack of executive support</title>
            <para> At times a project is driven by a product champion who has a lot of enthusiasm
                and has managed to obtain half-hearted executive support for the project. Executive
                management may, however, be <emphasis>uncertain whether the project is truly aligned
                    with the vision and mission of the organization</emphasis>. </para>
            <para> Furthermore, executive management may have <emphasis>reservations on the true
                    return on investment</emphasis>. This may be partially fuelled by
                    <emphasis>business uncertainties</emphasis>including <emphasis>market
                    uncertainty</emphasis> and <emphasis>uncertainty regarding the capabilities of
                    the opposition</emphasis>. </para>
            <para> At times <emphasis>political issues</emphasis> within the organization may put
                the entire project at risk or create an environment of uncertainty which results in
                increased cost and reduced rate of progress. </para>
            <para> In general, lack of executive support may result in executive management not
                allocating sufficient resources for a project or withdrawing support for a project
                during the course of the project. </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Ownership issues</title>
            <para> If the project does not have a well defined owner, it may be exposed to
                inconsistent requirements, fluctuating project support and general uncertainty in
                the project team. </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Unrealistic expectations</title>
            <para> The client may have unrealistic expectations which the client may stubbornly
                cling to. The risk of unrealistic expectations is increased by lack of client
                involvement. </para>
        </section>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Requirements issues</title>
        <para> Weak and changing requirements have traditionally been core contributors to overrun
            project cost and scheduled and, at times, have resulted in projects being abandoned. </para>

        <section>
            <title>Incomplete and incorrect requirements</title>
            <para> Very often requirements are incomplete, incorrect or even inconsistent.
                Furthermore, they may be documented in a way which makes it difficult to verify them
                and difficult for the technical team to effectively extract the information. </para>
            <para> Another common problem is that the quality requirements affecting the
                architecture including aspects like scalability, reliability, performance and
                security requirements are often not precisely specified. These have an affect on the
                architecture and changes in these could incur significant cost. </para>
            <para> Furthermore, often they are polluted with technical aspects which constrain the
                implementation domain unnecessarily. </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Undefined project success criteria</title>
            <para> At times project success criteria have not been clearly defined. Often they are
                vague and not measurable. In other cases project success criteria have been defined,
                but have not been verified against the business objectives and goals. In either case
                there may be no clear project focus and no clear guidelines for the prioritization
                of project tasks. </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Prioritization issues</title>
            <para> Some projects have resulted in failure because the project team has put the core
                effort into functionality and features which had little or no business impact, while
                putting less effort into the realization of those requirements which provide the
                core business value. This is usually due to either lack of prioritization or due to
                prioritization which was not driven by business requirements. </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Changing business vision and opportunities</title>
            <para> Many a project had to be abandoned because its business case became invalid
                during the course of the project. This is often caused by business opportunities
                becoming invalid, or by the organization changing aspects of its core mission and
                vision. </para>
        </section>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Project management issues</title>
        <para> Project management has the ultimate responsibility around project success or failure. </para>

        <section>
            <title>Risk management issues</title>
            <para> A recent study, <emphasis>"Factors for IT Success and Failure"</emphasis>,
                published in 2006 by June Verner found that 33% of projects claimed that they had no
                risk. However, 62% of these projects failed. These are examples where the
                    <emphasis>project risks were not identified</emphasis>. </para>
            <para> In other cases the risks were identified, but not effectively managed. </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Inaccurate estimation</title>
            <para> Many projects have failed because estimates were either directly derived from or
                strongly influenced by the available time and were not based on a solid effort
                estimation process. Base estimates on past experience (requires recoding of
                estimated and actual resource usage) Include time for rework after quality control
                activities. Base estimates on effort required and not on available calendar time. Do
                not schedule people for more than 80% of their time. Build training time into the
                estimates. Include time for obtaining experience in new technologies. Record
                estimates and how you derived them. </para>
            <para> In other cases estimation failures were due to either not involving the
                appropriate skills in the estimation process or due to omissions of critical steps
                in the estimation. </para>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Lack of clear responsibility definition and allocation</title>
            <para>
                Some projects fail because certain responsibilities where not adequately addressed. This
                is often caused either by
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        not defining the responsibilities clearly in the first place,
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        not defining the roles clearly, 
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        not allocating responsibilities clearly to roles, or
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        having some roles unassigned, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> not assigned to individuals.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Insufficient emphasis on quality assurance</title>
            <para> 
                Some projects which were developed within the allocated time frame failed due to
                lack of quality. The development was followed by an extensive debugging phase which
                resulted in extensive time and cost overruns. 
            </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Inaccurate project status reporting</title>
            <para> 
                Track project status openly and honestly. Create a climate in which team members
                feel safe reporting project status accurately. Strive to run the project from a
                foundation of accurate, data-based facts, rather than from the misleading optimism
                that sometimes arises from fear of reporting bad news. Use project status
                information to take corrective actions when necessary and to celebrate when you can.
            </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Immature scope management</title>
            <para> 
                Weakly defined scope or the lack of scope-change management commonly lead to cost
                and time overruns. 
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Team issues</title>
        <para> Many projects fail partially due to the team not being appropriate for the job. </para>

        <section>
            <title>Insufficient skills</title>
            <para> Some projects fail because they have an inexperienced project manager or a team
                which does not have the required skills for the chosen technology. </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Too large teams</title>
            <para> Often, as the team falls behind, the team size is increased without breaking the
                work into separate components developed by separate smaller teams. Increasing the
                team size does not necessarily lead to increased productivity. </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Non-motivated team</title>
            <para> Autocratic management, long hours, bad renumeration and bad management of the
                project as a whole may lead to the team being demotivated. A lack of motivation
                results in decreased productivity and quality. </para>
        </section>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Process issues</title>
        <para> Some projects which have significant environmental issues or skills issues fail
            because of lack of processes. </para>

        <section>
            <title>No defined or enforced software development process</title>
            <para> Many a project fails due to there either not being a defined software development
                process or due to the team not adhering to the defined software development process.
            </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Purchasing off-the-shelf solutions based on weak business requirements</title>
            <para> At times decisions are made to buy certain off the shelf products without having
                sufficiently understood the business requirements and without having modeled the
                business processes which need to be deployed within the off-the shelf solution. </para>
            <para> The customization of such products and the process of deploying the business
                processes within the product are often found to exceed cost and time budgets.
            </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Inability to manage changing requirements</title>
            <para> Many projects have failed due to the processes not being able to handle changing
                requirements. This is particularly true for projects which followed more heavy
                weight processes like, for example, processes based on the waterfall methodology.
            </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Immature architectural process</title>
            <para> Many a project has failed, not due to the functional requirements not being met,
                but due to issues around the quality requirements. The resultant system may have
                been unable to handle the workload or the number of concurrent users, it may have
                been unstable or very difficult and expensive to maintain. Such cases are usually
                caused by a failure by architecture. </para>
            <para> Similarly, if the failure of a system is traced back to the use of immature
                technologies, that too points to a problem within the architecture processes.
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>


</section>
