<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>

<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    
    <title>tcsh - Extended CSH</title>
    
    <section>
        <title>Command line completion</title>
        <para>
            Similar to bash, tcsh uses the <emphasis role="strong">TAB</emphasis> key to invoke command line completion.
        </para>
    </section>	
    
    <section>
        <title>Command history</title>
        <para>
            The command history feature is comparable to bash. Commands entered are added to the ~/.history file until the value of $savehist is reached in size. Previously entered commands can be accessed by ! followed by the history index.
        </para>
    </section>	
    
    <section>
        <title>Environment Variables</title>
        <para>
            TCSH and CSH do not use the export command to set environment variables, but rather rely on the <emphasis role="strong">set</emphasis> command to achieve the same.
        </para>
        <section>
            <title>Setting environment variables</title>
            <para>
                Environment variables are set using the <emphasis role="strong">set env [name]=[value]</emphasis> command syntax.
            </para>
            <programlisting>
[Butterflyx:compilations/courses/Linux] alex% set env myTestVar=Jade_Astrid
[Butterfly:compilations/courses/Linux] alex% echo $myTestVar
Jade_Astrid
[Butterfly:compilations/courses/Linux] alex% 
			</programlisting>
        </section>	
        <section>
            <title>Listing environment variables</title>
            <para>
                All environment variables are listed using the <emphasis role="strong">set</emphasis> command
            </para>
            <programlisting>
[Butterfly:compilations/courses/Linux] alex% set
savehist        10000
shell   /bin/tcsh
shlvl   1
status  0
tcsh    6.10.00
term    vt100
tty     ttyp2
uid     501
user    alex
version tcsh 6.10.00 (Astron) 2000-11-19 (powerpc-apple-darwin) options 8b,nls,dl,al,sm,rh,color
[Butterfly:compilations/courses/Linux] alex% 
			</programlisting>
        </section>	
    </section>	
    <section>
        <title>Configuration Files</title>
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>/etc/csh.cshrc /etc/cshrc.std /etc/.cshrc</title>
                    <para>
                        First system wide configuration file parsed by all shell invocations, even non-interactive, non-login shells.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>	
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>/etc/csh.login</title>
                    <para>
                        System wide configuration file read by the login shell after csh.cshrc
                    </para>
                </formalpara>	
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>~/.tcshrc</title>
                    <para>
                        User specific configuration file parsed by all shell invocations.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>	
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>~/.cshrc</title>
                    <para>
                        User specific configuration file ready by every invocation if ~/.tcshrc is not found.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>	
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>~/.login</title>
                    <para>
                        User specific configuration files processes after ~/.tcshrc.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>	
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>~/.cshdirs</title>
                    <para>
                    </para>
                </formalpara>	
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>/etc/csh.logout</title>
                    <para>
                        System wide configuration file parsed after logout.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>	
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>~/.logout</title>
                    <para>
                        User specific configuration file processed after logout.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>	
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </section>	
</section>	
