<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns269:section xmlns:ns269="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="components.technologies.java.j2ee.connectorArchitecture.introduction.introduction">
  
  <ns270:title xmlns:ns270="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Introduction</ns270:title>
  <ns271:para xmlns:ns271="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    When developing Enterprise systems within Java based architectures like JEE (the Java Enterprise
    Edition) and JBI (the Java Business Integration) reference architectures, one is encouraged to
    use the Java EE Connector Architecture for the base connectivity. The Java EE Connector
    Architecture provides a standard framework for resource adapters to systems not deployed within
    the application server which hosts the component making use of the resource. The Java EE Connector
    Architecture is commonly abbreviated as JCA though this abreviation is not actually strictly speaking 
    correct as it is used for the Java Cryptography Extension.  Using JCA connectors
    enables one to integrate external resources such as legacy systems or messaging providers
    a standard way into JEE compliant application servers such that they become an integral part 
    of the managed application server environment.    
  </ns271:para>
  
  <ns272:section xmlns:ns272="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns273:title xmlns:ns273="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">What is the Java Connector Architecture?</ns273:title>
    <ns274:para xmlns:ns274="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The Java Connector Architecture defines a standard architecture for connecting Java
      based systems (and in particular JEE systems) to heterogenous Enterprise Information Systems
      (EISs).
    </ns274:para>
    <ns275:para xmlns:ns275="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Resource adapters are typically used to provide scalable, secure, transactional integration with
      Enterprise Information Systems. When used by application servers, it enables the application
      server to 
      <ns276:itemizedlist xmlns:ns276="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns277:listitem xmlns:ns277="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns278:para xmlns:ns278="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          take over the management of connection resources, and to
        </ns278:para></ns277:listitem>
        <ns279:listitem xmlns:ns279="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns280:para xmlns:ns280="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          provide enterprise services like security and transaction management across the enterprise
          solution.
        </ns280:para></ns279:listitem>
      </ns276:itemizedlist>
    </ns275:para>
    <ns281:note xmlns:ns281="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns282:para xmlns:ns282="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Once a connector for an EIS has been developed, it can be deployed on any application server 
      that conforms to the JEE specifications.
    </ns282:para></ns281:note>
  </ns272:section>
    
  <ns283:section xmlns:ns283="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns284:title xmlns:ns284="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Example Enterprise Information (EIS) systems</ns284:title>
    <ns285:para xmlns:ns285="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Examples for EISs include
      <ns286:itemizedlist xmlns:ns286="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns287:listitem xmlns:ns287="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns288:para xmlns:ns288="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          legacy systems accessible through a proprietary protocol,
        </ns288:para></ns287:listitem>
        <ns289:listitem xmlns:ns289="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns290:para xmlns:ns290="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          database systems supporting either some version of SQL or some proprietary protocol,
        </ns290:para></ns289:listitem>
        <ns291:listitem xmlns:ns291="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns292:para xmlns:ns292="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          mainframe transaction processing (TP) systems,
        </ns292:para></ns291:listitem>
        <ns293:listitem xmlns:ns293="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns294:para xmlns:ns294="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          message queues,
        </ns294:para></ns293:listitem>
        <ns295:listitem xmlns:ns295="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns296:para xmlns:ns296="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          devices like ATMs, ...
        </ns296:para></ns295:listitem>
      </ns286:itemizedlist>
    </ns285:para>
  </ns283:section>
  
  <ns297:section xmlns:ns297="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns298:title xmlns:ns298="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Simplifying resource managers via the Java Connector Architecture</ns298:title>
    <ns299:para xmlns:ns299="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      In many ways the Java Connector Architecture simplifies the application server/resource
      manager's responsibilities. resource managers/application servers need no longer know
      about JDBC drivers, message queues, web services end points and so on as these can all
      be treated generically within the connector specification.
    </ns299:para>
  </ns297:section>
  
  
  <ns300:section xmlns:ns300="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns301:title xmlns:ns301="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Who uses connector resources?</ns301:title>
    <ns302:para xmlns:ns302="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Resource adaptors can be used by any Java based system. The Java Connector Architecture specification 
      exposes a standard
      API for connection resource management, security and transactions which can be used by any
      Java based system.
    </ns302:para>    
    <ns303:para xmlns:ns303="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Very commonly, however, connector resources are used from within application servers and on the
      Enterprise Services Bus (ESB) - an implementation of a Services Oriented Architecture (SOA)
      which may be based on the Java Business Integration (JBI) specification. This enables the
      application server or ESB to effectively manage the connection resources and in order to
      address non-functional concerns like
      <ns304:itemizedlist xmlns:ns304="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns305:listitem xmlns:ns305="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns306:para xmlns:ns306="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
           scaleability through effective resource management,  
        </ns306:para></ns305:listitem>
        <ns307:listitem xmlns:ns307="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns308:para xmlns:ns308="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          security, and
        </ns308:para></ns307:listitem>
        <ns309:listitem xmlns:ns309="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns310:para xmlns:ns310="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          transactions.
        </ns310:para></ns309:listitem>
      </ns304:itemizedlist>
    </ns303:para>
  </ns300:section>
  
  <ns311:section xmlns:ns311="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns312:title xmlns:ns312="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Who provides JCA adapters?</ns312:title>
    <ns313:para xmlns:ns313="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      JCA adaptors are often provided by 
      <ns314:itemizedlist xmlns:ns314="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns315:listitem xmlns:ns315="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns316:para xmlns:ns316="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          vendors of the various enterprise information systems (EISs) themselves,  
        </ns316:para></ns315:listitem>
        <ns317:listitem xmlns:ns317="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns318:para xmlns:ns318="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          by third-party vendors,     
        </ns318:para></ns317:listitem>
        <ns319:listitem xmlns:ns319="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns320:para xmlns:ns320="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          or by the open source community.
        </ns320:para></ns319:listitem>
      </ns314:itemizedlist>
      In cases where there is no JCA adaptor available, one may need to develop a JCA adaptor.
    </ns313:para>
  </ns311:section>
  
  <ns321:section xmlns:ns321="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns322:title xmlns:ns322="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Features of Java Connector Architecture</ns322:title>
    <ns323:para xmlns:ns323="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The Java Connector architecture offers the following features:
      <ns324:itemizedlist xmlns:ns324="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns325:listitem xmlns:ns325="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns326:para xmlns:ns326="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          JCA enables application servers to manage connection pools to proprietary and legacy
          systems.
        </ns326:para></ns325:listitem>
        <ns327:listitem xmlns:ns327="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns328:para xmlns:ns328="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          JCA supports both, outbound as well as inbound connection management.
        </ns328:para></ns327:listitem>
        <ns329:listitem xmlns:ns329="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns330:para xmlns:ns330="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          JCA enables one to include external resources into application server managed
          transactions.
        </ns330:para></ns329:listitem>
        <ns331:listitem xmlns:ns331="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns332:para xmlns:ns332="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          JCA supports application server authentication with EISs as well as the transmission of
          security credentials enabling the external EIS to enforce authorization rules.
        </ns332:para></ns331:listitem>
      </ns324:itemizedlist>
    </ns323:para>
  </ns321:section>
  
  <ns333:section xmlns:ns333="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns334:title xmlns:ns334="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Why use resource adapters?</ns334:title>
    <ns335:para xmlns:ns335="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Resource adapters enable one to keep non-functional aspects out of the code containing the
      core business logic. These include
     <ns336:itemizedlist xmlns:ns336="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
       <ns337:listitem xmlns:ns337="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns338:para xmlns:ns338="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
         the logic to establish connections,
       </ns338:para></ns337:listitem>
       <ns339:listitem xmlns:ns339="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns340:para xmlns:ns340="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
         connection pooling, 
       </ns340:para></ns339:listitem>
       <ns341:listitem xmlns:ns341="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns342:para xmlns:ns342="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
         marshalling of outgoing messages onto the EIS protocol and demarshalling of the responses,
       </ns342:para></ns341:listitem>
       <ns343:listitem xmlns:ns343="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns344:para xmlns:ns344="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
         mapping incoming messages onto events which are processed by application components,
       </ns344:para></ns343:listitem>
       <ns345:listitem xmlns:ns345="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns346:para xmlns:ns346="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
         transaction management across the EIS, and
       </ns346:para></ns345:listitem>
       <ns347:listitem xmlns:ns347="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns348:para xmlns:ns348="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
         security.
       </ns348:para></ns347:listitem>
     </ns336:itemizedlist>
    </ns335:para>
  </ns333:section>
  
  
</ns269:section>