<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <para>
        
        The EJB standard defines two types of beans:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Session Beans</title>
                <para>
                    Session beans provide expose services (tasks, business work flows) for clients. They may be 
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><formalpara>
                            <title>Stateless</title>
                            <para>
                                Stateless session beans do not maintain state across service requests. They are usually
                                usually used as facades to provide a consistent, client-centric services interface on top of
                                a potentially complex application.
                            </para>
                        </formalpara></listitem>
                        <listitem><formalpara>
                            <title>Stateful</title>
                            <para>
                                Stateful session beans maintain state across service requests, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> 
                                they maintain the state of the interaction or conversation throughout the client session.
                                (for example, a shopping cart or workflow manager)
                            </para>
                        </formalpara></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Message Driven Beans</title>
                <para>
                    Message driven beans provide asynchronous service offerings to clients. They process 
                    service requests off a message queue or topic.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>        
    </para>
  
  <para>
    Prior to version 3, a third type of bean called <emphasis>entity beans</emphasis>
    existed. Though the concept of persistent entities (containing the <quote>state</quote>
    of the system) still exist, they exist now as part of a separate, simplified
    standard called JPA (the Java Perisstence API).
  </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Beans as lightweight components</title>
        <para>
            Since version 3 of the EJB specification, nothing in the Java source code is specific to EJB. 
            The source code is that of a simple Java class, devoid of any architecture information.
        </para>
        <para>
            The information which is relevant if the Java class is deployed in an EJB container is provided
            as meta-data using Java annotations (or XML files). This information is used by the application 
            server to manage the component. In the case of entities, it may include information on how 
            the information in the Java objects must be mapped to the database.
        </para>
    </section>    
</section>    