<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-20 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>XP iterations</title>

    <para> XP is, like most modern processes, modeled around incremental releases which, in XP,
        define the beat of the project. </para>
    <para> For each release XP goes through the following high-level phases: Exploration: During
        this phase the requirements for the iteration are explored and the customer selects the
        features which he/she would like to see in the next iteration. Commitment: The development
        team assesses the scope of the iteration, the required resources, the complexity of the
        features to be developed in that iteration and the feasibility of completing it in the
        allocated framework. Finally there will be a commitment to a clearly defined iteration with
        a list of the deliverable system features. Steering: This phase is about developing the
        features specified for the iteration. The progress is continuously monitored via testing and
        integration reports. If it becomes apparent that making the delivery date becomes a problem,
        the scope is reduced by removing features completely from the iteration. The argument is
        that a non-complete feature is, from the customers point of view, a non-existing feature. </para>
    <para> Even though each iteration adds only one or a few features to the system, it represents a
        complete cycle. All activities typically present in a software development process are
        present in each iteration: <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>Specification </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Design </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Implementation </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Testing </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Integration </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Deployment </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Documentation </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Training</para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist> but each cycle covers only a the restricted scope of one or a few features
        and is completed in a few weeks (typical XP recommendation is a two-week cycle per
        iteration). </para>

    <section>
        <title>Guidelines for writing stories</title>
        <para> A story in XP is really a system feature or unit of functionality required by the
            client. XP introduces the following guidelines for stories (feature requirements): <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Each story must represent something of value to the customer. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Stories must be understandable to the customer. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Stories should be short. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Stories must be implementable within one iteration. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Stories must be testable.</para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Story should describe a business value</title>
        <para> A story should be a system feature requirement which is of direct value to the
            customer. Some examples are <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>A specific user task which is a direct element of a business work flow.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>A specific feature which enhances a business work flow in some way.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>A Specification of a constraint which should be satisfied like a
                        performance constraint or a constraint specifying that certain system
                        features should only be available under certain conditions.</para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist> Stories should be written by the customer and the development team
            should be able to estimate how long it will take and what resources it will require to
            deliver a story. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Stories must be understandable to the customer.</title>
        <para> Textual descriptions should be in a language accessible to the customer. XP really
            requires that natural language should be used. I feel that UML can be seen as a
            graphical representation of natural language constructs and that UML diagrams can
            significantly clarify a system feature requirement. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Stories should be short.</title>
        <para> XP requires that stories should be short and should only include the a small amount
            of detail. The consequence of this is that the feature requirements represented by the
            stories are inherently vague. </para>
        <para> In the context of XP this is acceptable because it is assumed from the outset that
            the requirements </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Stories must be implementable within one iteration</title>
        <para> If stories are complex and large so that they cannot be implemented within a few
            weeks (typically 2 or 3), then they should be broken up into shorter stories. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Stories must be testable.</title>
        <para> The client should be able to provide you with ways in which he/she is going to test
            the implemented story. </para>
    </section>

</section>
