<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">

  <title>Introduction</title>
  
  <indexterm>
    <primary>XPath</primary>
    <secondary>introduction</secondary>
  </indexterm>
  
  <para>
    XPath is a standard language for addressing parts of an XML document. It is widely used in 
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem><para>
        XQuery based query definitions,
      </para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>
        XSLT transformation specifications, and even in    
      </para></listitem>
      <listitem><para>
        specification of XML schemas (particularly when defining keys and key references).
      </para></listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </para>

  <section>
    <title>Getting a feeling for XPath expressions</title>
    <para>  
      An XPath expression is a pattern, which could be used to find all the
      nodes in an XML document which matches that pattern. Unlike other
      pattern languages like regular expressions, XPath does not work with
      XML at a text level, but rather directly with the parsed tree structure.
      It can thus distinguish between elements, attributes, text, comments,
      and so on.
    </para>
    <para>
      For example, if a fleet of vehicles were represented as
      <programlisting language="XML">
<xi:include href="src/fleet.xml" parse="text"/>
    </programlisting>
      Consider the following example XPath expressions we could use to query
      the document:
    </para>
    <para>
      <literal>/fleet/vehicle</literal> to select
      all the vehicle elements which are sub-elements of the root node.
    </para>
    <para>
      <literal>/fleet/vehicle[@colour='white']</literal> to select
      all the vehicle elements that have a white colour.
    </para>
    <para>
      <literal>/fleet/vehicle[registration='ABC 123 GP']/make/text()</literal>
      to select the text in the <quote>make</quote> element of the vehicle with registration
      <quote>ABC 123 GP</quote>.
    </para>
    <para>
      <literal>count(/fleet/vehicle)</literal> to count the number of vehicles
      in the fleet.
    </para>
    <note>
      <para>
        These expressions all use the short-hand version of XPath. It is beneficial,
        upon first learning, to be aware of the expanded syntax. For example, the
        first expression above is fully specified as:
        <literal>/child::fleet/child::vehicle</literal>
      </para>
    </note>
  </section>
</section>
