<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns3596:section xmlns:ns3596="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2se.security.SSLClientAuthentication.CreateCert">

	<ns3597:title xmlns:ns3597="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Creating a Certificate</ns3597:title>
	<ns3598:para xmlns:ns3598="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		To create a certificate with openssl the following command can be used
	</ns3598:para>
	<ns3599:programlisting xmlns:ns3599="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
alex% perl CA.pl -newreq
Using configuration from /System/Library/OpenSSL/openssl.cnf
Generating a 1024 bit RSA private key
..++++++
.......................++++++
writing new private key to 'newreq.pem'
Enter PEM pass phrase: password
Verifying password - Enter PEM pass phrase: password
-----
You are about to be asked to enter information that will be incorporated
into your certificate request.
What you are about to enter is what is called a Distinguished Name or a DN.
There are quite a few fields but you can leave some blank
For some fields there will be a default value,
If you enter '.', the field will be left blank.
-----
Country Name (2 letter code) [AU]:ZA
State or Province Name (full name) [Some-State]:Gauteng
Locality Name (eg, city) []:Johannesburg
Organization Name (eg, company) [Internet Widgits Pty Ltd]:myOtherOrg
Organizational Unit Name (eg, section) []:SpecialBranch
Common Name (eg, YOUR name) []:specialbranch.myOtherOrg.co.za
Email Address []:admin@specialbranch.myOtherOrg.co.za

Please enter the following 'extra' attributes
to be sent with your certificate request
A challenge password []:
An optional company name []:
Request (and private key) is in newreq.pem
alex% 
	</ns3599:programlisting>
	<ns3600:para xmlns:ns3600="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		This command will generate a file <ns3601:emphasis xmlns:ns3601="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">newreq.pem</ns3601:emphasis> containing a certificate and a private key. To sign the generated certificate signing request <ns3602:emphasis xmlns:ns3602="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">CSR</ns3602:emphasis> the following command is used : 
	</ns3600:para>
	<ns3603:programlisting xmlns:ns3603="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
alex% perl CA.pl -sign
Using configuration from /System/Library/OpenSSL/openssl.cnf
Enter PEM pass phrase:
Check that the request matches the signature
Signature ok
The Subjects Distinguished Name is as follows
countryName           :PRINTABLE:'ZA'
stateOrProvinceName   :PRINTABLE:'Gauteng'
localityName          :PRINTABLE:'Johannesburg'
organizationName      :PRINTABLE:'myOtherOrg'
organizationalUnitName:PRINTABLE:'SpecialBranch'
commonName            :PRINTABLE:'specialbranch.myOtherOrg.co.za'
emailAddress          :IA5STRING:'admin@specialbranch.myOtherOrg.co.za'
Certificate is to be certified until Aug  2 20:34:21 2004 GMT (365 days)
Sign the certificate? [y/n]:y


1 out of 1 certificate requests certified, commit? [y/n]y
Write out database with 1 new entries
Data Base Updated
Signed certificate is in newcert.pem
alex% 
	</ns3603:programlisting>
	<ns3604:para xmlns:ns3604="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		This will create <ns3605:emphasis xmlns:ns3605="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">newcert.pem</ns3605:emphasis> which contains a signed certificate, signed by your own certificae authoritiy. To extract the private key from the request use the following.
 	</ns3604:para>	
	<ns3606:programlisting xmlns:ns3606="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
alex% openssl rsa &lt; newreq.pem &gt; servler_key.pem
read RSA key
Enter PEM pass phrase:
writing RSA key
alex% 
	</ns3606:programlisting>
	<ns3607:para xmlns:ns3607="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		Often is is helpful to change the create file names.
	</ns3607:para>
	<ns3608:programlisting xmlns:ns3608="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
newcert.pem -&gt;	server_cert.pem   [signed certificate]
newreq.pem  -&gt; server_req.pe     [CSR]
                  server_key.pem    [private key]
	</ns3608:programlisting>
</ns3596:section>