<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns6312:section xmlns:ns6312="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2se.exceptionHandling.chaining.examples.examples">
  <ns6313:title xmlns:ns6313="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Examples</ns6313:title>
    <ns6314:para xmlns:ns6314="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        See the following example on how to create an exception chain. The throwable can contain a cause and ultimately 
        provides a link in the exception chain. One way to encapsulate a cause would be in the Throwable constructor 
        as demonstrated in the example.
    <ns6315:programlisting xmlns:ns6315="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" parse="text" href="src/MyAppException.java"/></ns6315:programlisting>
</ns6314:para>
   <ns6316:para xmlns:ns6316="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Another method to associate a cause with a Throwable is to call the initCause method on an existing Throwable 
       object's reference and to pass a reference to another Throwable object as a parameter. The latter would typically 
       be implemented on legacy code. When using the custom exception, a specific low level message is passed to the 
       new Exception class. To use the custom exception, catch a Throwable class instead of Exception. By catching 
       Throwable, unchecked exceptions will also be caught. See how the custom exception is used in the example below.
       <ns6317:programlisting xmlns:ns6317="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" parse="text" href="src/UseMyAppException.java"/></ns6317:programlisting>
   </ns6316:para>
    <ns6318:para xmlns:ns6318="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        On executing this example the following is displayed:
        <ns6319:programlisting xmlns:ns6319="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
za.co.solmstcd.chaining.MyAppException: Failed to read the database file: myDB.db
at za.co.solmstcd.chaining.UseMyAppException.getDB(UseMyAppException.java:21)
at za.co.solmstcd.chaining.UseMyAppException.main(UseMyAppException.java:42)
Caused by: java.io.FileNotFoundException: myDB.db (No such file or directory)
at java.io.FileInputStream.open(Native Method)
at java.io.FileInputStream.&lt;init&gt;(FileInputStream.java:106)
    at java.io.FileInputStream.&lt;init&gt;(FileInputStream.java:66)
        at java.io.FileReader.&lt;init&gt;(FileReader.java:41)
            at za.co.solmstcd.chaining.UseMyAppException.getDB(UseMyAppException.java:16)
            ... 1 more            
        </ns6319:programlisting>
</ns6318:para>
    </ns6312:section>