<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<para  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    The most widely used shells are the following:
    <itemizedlist>
        <listitem>
            <formalpara>
                <title>Bourne shell</title>
                <para>
                    The simplest, most basic shell. Most modern shells have built on and extended 
                    this shell.	It was developed by Steven Bourne at AT&amp;T Bell Laboratories.
                </para>
            </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <formalpara>
                <title>Korn shell</title>
                <para>
                    As the korn shell is available commercially the open source community developed
                    the public domain korn shell (pdksh). 	
                    It was designed and developed by David G. Korn at AT&amp;T Bell Laboratories. 
                </para>
            </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <formalpara>
                <title>C shell</title>
                <para>
                    The C shell privides a C-like syntax and has added convenience over the bourne shell. 
                    Amongst the additions over to bourne shell was a history mechanism allowing access  
                    to previously used commands, job control to manage programs running in the 
                    background and interactive file name completion. It was developed at the 
                    University of Berkeley.
                </para>
            </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <formalpara>
                <title>tcshell</title>
                <para>
                    tcsh is an enhanced but completely compatible version of the Berkeley UNIX C shell. 
                    Amongst the enhancements is a command line editing and spelling correction.
                </para>
            </formalpara>
        </listitem>
        <listitem>
            <formalpara>
                <title>Bourne Again shell</title>
                <para>
                    The bourne again shell (bash) is the default shell on most linux distributes. 
                    It is fully compatible with the bourne shell but also includes many additional 
                    features. Bash included many features from the korn shell as well as the c shell.
                </para>
            </formalpara>
        </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
</para>    