<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-2-18 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Architecture versus design</title>

    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>architecture</primary><secondary>versus design</secondary></indexterm>
        The architecture of an organization provides the core infrastructure within which the business processes are deployed. It
        needs to provide a suitable environment within which the organization can realize its vision and mission and its core
        quality offerings.
    </para>
    <para>
        Business process design, on the other hand, is concerned with defining the processes through which the services which generate
        stake holder value are realized. These are driven by specific needs and functional requirements. The processes will specify what
        needs to be done when and ultimately which organizational components are responsible for which work flow steps.
    </para>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>quality attributes</primary><secondary>for organization</secondary></indexterm>
        The business processes deployed within a particular architecture acquire through the architecture the core organizational qualities
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                <emphasis>reliability</emphasis>, <indexterm><primary>quality attributes</primary><secondary>realiability</secondary></indexterm>
                <indexterm><primary>reliability</primary><see><indexterm><primary>quality attribute</primary><secondary>reliability</secondary></indexterm></see></indexterm>
                the ability to realize one's obligations to clients and other stake holders reliably,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                <emphasis>scalability</emphasis>, 
                <indexterm><primary>quality attributes</primary><secondary>scalability</secondary></indexterm>
                <indexterm><primary>reliability</primary><see><indexterm><primary>quality attribute</primary><secondary>scalability</secondary></indexterm></see></indexterm>
                the ability to handle large and/or varying volumes of service requests,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                <emphasis>low cost</emphasis>, 
                <indexterm><primary>quality attributes</primary><secondary>low cost</secondary></indexterm>
                <indexterm><primary>low cost</primary><see><indexterm><primary>quality attribute</primary><secondary>low cost</secondary></indexterm></see></indexterm>
                the ability to offer services or products at <emphasis>low cost</emphasis>
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        and potentially a range of other quality requirements.
    </para>
    <para>
        The architecture of an organization should encompass the full infrastructure into which business processes are to be deployed. 
        This infrastructure which we refer to as the enterprise architecture spans organizational and systems architecture. The business processes
        are deployed across the entire entireprise architecture.
    </para>
    <para>
        The enterprise architecture must realize the architectural requirements for the organization. These requirements include
        <indexterm><primary>requirements</primary><secondary>for architecture</secondary></indexterm>
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the scope of services to be deployed within the enterprise architecture,
                <indexterm><primary>requirements</primary><secondary>scope</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the quality requirements which are to be realized across the business processes deployed
                within the enterprise architecture,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the integration requirements between the organization and its environment (clients, service providers, and observers),
                <indexterm><primary>requirements</primary><secondary>scope</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                as well as any architectural constraints placed by the stake holders on the architecture.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        The functional requirements for a user service (use case), on the other hand, include
        <indexterm><primary>requirements</primary><secondary>functional</secondary></indexterm>
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the deliverables as required across the stake holders,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the conditions under which the service may be refused without breaking the contract,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the desired user work flow
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the messages and objects which need to be exchanged with any other external role players as well as any requirements
                requirements around them (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> data structure requirements), and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                any activities required by any of the stake holders.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        While the functional requirements are realized through work flow, the architectural requirements are realized through infrastructure.
    </para>
</section>    
        