<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Example Profiles</title>
    <para>
        Profiles have been developed for a wide range of applications covering different
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                modeling domains,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                implementation technology domains,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                specialized modeling languages, and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                methodology domains.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Profiles for special types of modeling domains</title>
        <para>
            Many profiles are defined to introduce specialized concepts relevant for specific modeling domains. Examples include 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the <emphasis>UML Profile for Schedulability, Performance and Time</emphasis> used extensively for real time system modeling,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the <emphasis>UML Profile for Modeling QoS and Fault Tolerance Characteristics and Mechanisms</emphasis>
                    which adds the ability to include quality of service requirements in the UML model, and  	
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the <emphasis>Rational UML Profile for business modeling</emphasis> which aims to extend the basic UML constructs with
                    more specific concepts relevant to business modeling. 
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Implementation technology specific profiles</title>
        <para>
            In order to model the platform specific model (PSM) of OMG's model driven architecture (MDA), one needs to introduce
            implementation technology specific concepts. For this reason a range of profiles covering various implementation technology 
            have been specified and often standardized. Examples include=
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    UML Profile for Enterprise Distributed Object Computing (EDOC)
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    UML Profile for Services Oriented Architecture
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    CORBA
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    UML profile for EJB
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>            
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Profiles to specify specialized modeling languages</title>
        <para>
            The most compelling example is that of OMG's <emphasis>Business Process Modeling Language</emphasis>, BPMN.
            Currently BPMN is a completely independent modeling language with some standardized mapping between UML
            and BPMN. A reasonable proportion of the community however feels that BPMN should be a UML profile and some
            vendors like NoMagic have implemented a UML profile for BPMN in order to support BPMN within their UML
            modeling tools.
            <note><para>
                There is an active debate currently within the OMG around whether BPMN should be defined as a UML profile or not.
                In our opinion it is likely that this will be standardized by the OMG at some stage.
            </para></note>
        </para>
    </section>   
    
    <section>
        <title>UML profiles for modeling methodologies</title>
        <para>
            UML profile for URDAD
        </para>
    </section>    
</section>    