<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Understanding revisions and the <literal>status</literal> command</title>
    <para>
        A revision represent a particular state of the repository. The revision numbers in subversion are simply
        incremented with each modification (<literal>commit</literal>), i.e. after each commit which applies
        any changes to the repository, the revision number is incremented.
    </para>
    <para>
        Upon checkout, the working copy will have the revision number of the repository (or of that particular revision
        which was checked out). Upon editing and committing different resources, the  working copy may contain
        resources with different revision number.
    </para>
    <section>
        <title>The <literal>status</literal>command</title>
        <para>
            The <literal>status</literal> command allows one to query the status of the resources in the working copy.
            By default it will report the state of the local copy of each resource which has had local modifications using
            status flags:
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn status
?      test3.txt
A      test2.txt
D      test4.txt
M      dummy/dummy.txt            
            ]]></programlisting>
        </para>
        
        <section>
            <title>Status flags</title>
            <para>
                The status flags used by the <literal>status</literal> command are as follows:
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        <literal>M</literal> : locally modified
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        <literal>A</literal> : added, not yet sent to repository
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        <literal>D</literal> : deleted - not yet from repository
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        <literal>?</literal> : item not yet under revision control
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        <literal>C</literal> : item is in a state of conflict with updates received from the repository
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        <literal>R</literal> : item has been replaced with a copy from the repository
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        <literal>T</literal> : the item is ignored because it is in the ignore list
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        <literal>!</literal> : item is missing (perhaps deleted without using <literal>svn delete</literal> or an interrupted update
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        <literal>!</literal> : item is missing (perhaps deleted without using <literal>svn delete</literal> or an interrupted update
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        <literal>~</literal> : item is versioned as one type of object, but has been replaced by another type of object.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
                If no flags are shown, then there are no local modifications.
            </para>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Verbose output</title>
            <para>
                the version number for each resource 
                Adding the <literal>--verbose</literal> flag to the <literal>status</literal> command also shows you the files whose status
                has not changed and provides you, in addition to the status flag,
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        the working revision number of each resource,            
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        the revision in which the resource last changed, and
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        who has made the last change to the resource.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para>
            <para>
                For example,
                <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn status --verbose
               10       10 fritz        .
?                                       test3.txt
A               0       ?   ?           test2.txt
D              13       13 fritz        test4.txt
               10        2 fritz        dummy
M              10        2 fritz        dummy/dummy.txt
               10        9 fritz        test.txt
            ]]></programlisting>
            </para>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Showing required updates</title>
            <para>
                By default the <literal>status</literal> command does not contact the server, it only reports on the status of the working copy with
                reference to the last update, using the metadata and information around the current state of the files in the working directory. 
                You can, however, use the <literal>--showupdates</literal> command line flag to request that the <literal>status</literal>
                command should also show you the files which have been updated on the server side since your last commit. Changes to
                any of these files require an update before any changes can be committed. 
            </para>
            <para>
                Subversion will put an asterisk next to each file which has a newer revision on the server side and show you the revision number
                you currently have (not the revision number available on the server):
                For example,
                <programlisting><![CDATA[
svn status --show-updates
M      *       10   dummy/dummy.txt
A               0   test2.txt
?                   test3.txt
D              13   test4.txt
       *       10   test.txt
]]></programlisting>
            </para>
        </section>    
    </section>    
</section>  