<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0b5/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
  xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" version="5.0">
  
  <info>
    <title>Dariel Patterns Assignment</title>
    <author>
      <personname>
        <honorific>Dr</honorific>
        <firstname>Fritz</firstname>
        <surname>Solms</surname>
      </personname>
      <affiliation>
        <orgname>Solms Training, Consulting and Development</orgname>
      </affiliation>
    </author>  
  </info>
  
 <!-- <section>
    <title></title>
  -->
  <para>
    <orderedlist>
      <listitem><para>
        Explain the benefits of using the factory method pattern. Provide an example where you
        would use this pattern and explain why you would use this pattern in this case.
      </para></listitem>
      
      <listitem><para>
        Explain the difference between the decorator and the state patterns.
        Explain what criteria you would use to decide whether you are going
        to use the one or the other. Provide an example of each and explain
        what criteria you base the choice of pattern on.
      </para></listitem>
      
      <listitem><para>
        You want to decouple from the underlying operating system support for 
        GUI  components. Explain the relevance of the bridge and abstract
        factory patterns and explain what you would achieve with either and
        how they complement each other in the context of this problem.
      </para></listitem>
      
      <listitem><para>
        Assume you currently store the information of your CAD drawings 
        in a text file.  The file contains a line for each graphics object with 
        the type of the graphics object (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> circle), 
        the position, and the characteristics, (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> 
        radius, border width and color, fill color, ...) specified per line. 
        You are considering moving your CAD
        drawing information to XML but you will have to support both
        for the foreseeable future. Which design pattern(s) would you
        use to read in drawings from text files and XML streams and why?
        Illustrate your solution with UML diagrams.        
      </para></listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    
  </para><!--
  </section>-->
  
</article>
