<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    xml:id="components.technologies.www.http.response.3xxRedirection.3xxRedirection">
        <title>Redirection - 3xx</title>
        <para>
               This class of status code indicates that further action needs to be taken by the user agent in order 
               to fulfil the interaction. The action required may be carried out by the user agent without interaction 
               with the user if and only if the method used in the second request is GET or HEAD. A client should detect 
               infinite redirection loops, since such loops generate unnecessary network traffic.
        </para>
        <para>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>300 Multiple Choices</title>
                        <para>
                            The user agent should choose from a selection of alternative locations
                            (included in the message body) and re-request the resource.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>301 Moved Permanently</title>
                        <para>
                             The requested resource has been assigned a new permanent URI and any future references to 
                             this resource should use one of the returned URIs. Clients with link editing capabilities 
                             ought to automatically re-link references to the Request-URI to one or more of the new 
                             references returned by the server, where possible.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>302 Found</title>
                        <para>
                             The requested resource resides temporarily under a different URI. Since the redirection 
                             might be altered on occasion, the client should continue to use the Request-URI for future 
                             requests. This response is only cacheable if indicated by a Cache-Control or Expires header field.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>303 See Other</title>
                        <para>
                             The response to the request can be found under a different URI and should be retrieved using a 
                             GET method on that resource. This method exists primarily to allow the output of a POST-activated 
                             script to redirect the user agent to a selected resource. The new URI is not a substitute reference 
                             for the originally requested resource.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>304 Not Modified</title>
                        <para>
                             If the client has performed a conditional GET request and access is allowed, but the document has 
                             not been modified, the server should respond with this status code. The 304 response must 
                             contain a message-body, and thus is always terminated by the first empty line after the 
                             header fields.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>305 Use Proxy</title>
                        <para>
                             The requested resource must be accessed through the proxy given by the Location field. The Location 
                             field gives the URI of the proxy. The recipient is expected to repeat this single request via the proxy. 
                             305 responses must only be generated by origin servers.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>306 (Unused)</title>
                        <para>
                             The 306 status code was used in a previous version of the specification, 
                             is no longer used, and the code is reserved.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>307 Temporary Redirect</title>
                        <para>
                             The requested resource resides temporarily under a different URI. Since the redirection may be 
                             altered on occasion, the client should continue to use the Request-URI for future requests.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>            
        </para>
</section>
