<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-2-18 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>What should PIM contain?</title>
    <para>
        The model should contain
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the functionality provided to users of the end-product together with the quality with which the functionality
                is to be provided,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                how the service is to be used,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the inputs, outputs and other deliverables of the service,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the processes through which the required functionality is realized and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the structure supporting the functionality.
            </para></listitem>   
        </itemizedlist>

    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Required PIM components</title>
        <para>
            In order to contain sufficient information for an implementation mapping onto
            some externally defined architecture,
            URDAD requires that the PIM must contain the following artifacts:
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>Services contracts</title>
                        <para>
                            For each level of granularity, the services
                            contracts for each responsibility domain at that level of
                            granularity. The services contracts must specify the services which
                            any service provider implementing the services contract needs to
                            provide together with the inputs, outputs, pre- and post-conditions, and
                            quality requirements for each service.
                            Examples of services contracts include services contracts for
                            <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    internal service providers for which lower level
                                    business processes
                                    realising these services contracts are specified at a lower
                                    level of granularity,              
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    external services providers to whom
                                    certain responsibilities are out-sourced,              
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    responsibility domains which are
                                    realized by off-the-shelf systems or systems developed by
                                    external development partners,              
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    user contracts, specifying what is required from the users of
                                    services, and              
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    base processing elements performing certain basic computational
                                    services which obtain some input and transform it to some
                                    output.              
                                </para></listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>
                </listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Business process specifications</title>
                    <para>
                        The specification on how a business
                        process at any level of granularity is assembled from the services
                        defined within the services contracts for that level of granularity.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Request construction</title>
                    <para>
                        The PIM must contain the specification on
                        how the information required for a service request is assembled.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Data structure specification</title>
                    <para>
                        The model must contain the data structure
                        requirements in a technology neutral way.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>


    <section>
        <title>What should the PIM not contain?</title>
        <para>
            Preferably the model should provide implementation specialists maximum freedom around the
            implementation details. For this reason the model should preferably contain minimal information
            of
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the materials/technologies used to create the end product,            
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the infrastructure within which the functionality is to be deployed,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the strategies through which non-functional requirements like scalability,
                    accessability, reliability, security, performance, auditability, and so on are realized, 
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>  
    
</section>





