<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Risk identification</title>
    <para> Before one can manage risk, one has to identify it. A formal process of identifying the
        risks a project is exposed to should be included early in the project's life cycle. The
        risks list should be updated continuously, adding risks as new risks are identified and
        removing risks which either turn out to be non-risks, or which have been converted to
        non-risks. </para>
    <para> Initially one should merely identify the risk factors without trying to assess or
        quantify them. </para>
    <para> There are a number of techniques which can be used to try and identify risk factors. The
        most commonly used ones are <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para> gathering information from various stake holders, </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> comparing with past experience (ones own or that of others), </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> evaluating the project's risk profile, and </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> analyzing budgets and schedules. </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>The deliverables of the risk identification process</title>
        <para> The risk identification phase should produce <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> a list of the potential the sources of risk, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> for each risk source, a list of the potential risk events, and </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> for each risk event, a list of symptoms. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Obtaining risk information from stake holders</title>
        <para> As a first approach one can obtain risk information directly from the various stake
            holder. There are a number of techniques one can employ and a few factors one should
            keep in mind when gathering risk information from stake holders including <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> interviews, </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> brainstorming sessions and </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> questionnaires. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist> After the most obvious risks have been identified, request the stake
            holders to try and imagine the worst-case scenario. </para>

        <section>
            <title>Who should be consulted</title>
            <para> Many different types of role players can effectively contribute to the
                identification of any risks the project is facing. <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> The estimation team should be able to provide an estimate of the
                            uncertainties in their estimates. </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> Architects and lead designers should be able to assess architectural
                            and high-level technology risks. </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> Project management can contribute to assessing <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem>
                                    <para> estimation risk including schedule and budget risks based
                                        on past experience, </para>
                                </listitem>
                                <listitem>
                                    <para> scope risk based on past experience, </para>
                                </listitem>
                                <listitem>
                                    <para> skills risk, <note>
                                            <para> Any unique staff requirements which are difficult
                                                to replace should be identified. </para>
                                        </note>
                                    </para>
                                </listitem>
                                <listitem>
                                    <para> and the client risks. </para>
                                </listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                        </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> The management of the performing organization could be interviewed
                            regarding the financial and client risks. </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> Management of the client organization and their business analysts
                            could assist in identifying market risks and many of the client-based
                            risks. </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> People who have worked on similar projects. </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> Legal experts for assessing the legal risks. </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> Economists and financial market experts for economic risks. </para>
                    </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Brainstorming sessions</title>
            <para> Try and organize first a high-level the brainstorming session which includes one
                or two core representatives from each role. The core risks should be identified
                without making effort to assess the risk. Rather use the session purely for
                gathering risk information. </para>
            <para> Further brainstorming sessions can be organized within each responsibility group
                to delve into and understand risk factors faced by that group. </para>
        </section>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Comparing with historic experience</title>
        <para> A source of good quality risk information is historic experience. The historic
            experience could include both, <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> historic experience gained by the performing organization itself, and
                    </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> historic experience obtained by other organization. </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <section>
            <title>Historic experience of the performing organization</title>
            <para> One should compare <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> previous estimates with actual performance, </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> the historic experience around introducing new technologies, </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> problem logs, </para>
                    </listitem>
                    <listitem>
                        <para> quality assurance reports for past projects, </para>
                    </listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para>
            <para> In addition one should consult post-project reviews for any lessons to be learnt
                from previous projects executed by the organization. </para>
        </section>

        <section>
            <title>Historic experience of other organizations</title>
            <para> In addition to using one's own historic experience, one may also obtain valuable
                information from the historic experience obtained by other organizations. Such an
                approach is particularly relevant to assess environmental and technology risks. </para>
            <para> For example, assessing why other organizations have failed to successfully use
                certain technologies for certain problem types or why projects they have done for
                that particular client have failed may provide valuable input for assessing both,
                technology and client risk. </para>
        </section>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Analyzing schedules, project plans, budgets</title>
        <para> Schedules and budgets should be brainstormed with the different role players, trying
            to expose elements of these which certain role players may find difficult to adhere to.
            Try and understand the reasons behind their concerns </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Risk check-lists</title>
        <para> It is a good idea to create and evolve a risk check list within the organization.
            This helps to reduce the probability of omitting risks from the risks list. One can
            also use the risk check list to capture risk severities and, with the appropriate
            weighting, obtain a measure for the overall risk of the project. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Risk symptoms</title>
        <para> To simplify risk monitoring, one may want to introduce a list of risk symptoms for
            each potential risk event. A risk symptom (sometimes called a risk trigger) is an
            observable which indicates that a risk either has occurred or is about to occur. For
            example, poor work moral may be a first indicator for the project falling behind
            schedule or </para>
        <para> Observing a symptom during risk monitoring would then typically trigger a process of
            verifying that the risk event has indeed occurred, followed by an automatic execution of
            the risk response plan. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Catering for unidentified risks</title>
        <para> There is, of course, always the risk of not being able to identify all or even the
            major risks. Through continuous risk identification processes one will hopefully
            identify such risks before the put the entire project at risk. Once new risks are
            identified, they need to be added to the risks list, their probability and severeness
            needs to be estimated and the response strategies will have to be put in place. </para>

        <section>
            <title>Contingency reserves for unidentified risks</title>
            <para> Schedule and cost estimates should make provision for a fair amount of yet
                unidentified risks. The amount should once again be preferably based on historical
                experience. </para>
        </section>
    </section>

</section>
