<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->

<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  
  <title>Message based integration</title>
  <para>
    Message senders send messages to a destination (queue, topic, postbox, ...). Message
    consumers process messages of that destination. This framework is commonly used for asynchronous
    integration.
  </para>
  <para>
    Messaging based integration provides a number of very attractive features:
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem><formalpara>
        <title>Decoupling</title>
        <para>
          Message based integration leads to message senders being decoupled from message consumers.
          At any stage the entities consuming the messages may change without affecting the message
          senders - they need not even be aware of this.
        </para>
      </formalpara></listitem>
      <listitem><formalpara>
        <title>Natural load balancing</title>
        <para>
          Message based integration allows for natural load balancing where one has a collection of
          message consumers processing messages off a destination, retrieving the next message
          after the first message has been processed. One does not require a work load manager which
          has to understand the load on the message consumers in order to be able to effectively
          distribute messages across consumers.
        </para>
      </formalpara></listitem>
      <listitem><formalpara>
        <title>Fail over safety</title>
        <para>
          The post box or message queue will store the message until it can be extracted by or
          delivered to a message consumer. This provides fail over safety, i.e. the message will
          still be delivered even if systems are temporarily down or business units temporarily
          shut.
        </para>
      </formalpara></listitem>
      <listitem><formalpara>
        <title>Prioritized processing</title>
        <para>
          The decoupling of messaging as well as its asynchronous nature lend itself for prioritized
          processing where more resources are committed to processing high priority messages than
          what their are for lower priority messages.
        </para>
      </formalpara>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </para>
</section>  