<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">
    <title>Client containers</title>
    <para>
        The Java EE specification introduces the concept of a client container, which provides the
        required environment for a Java EE <quote>thick client</quote> (such as a desktop app) where
        one simply accesses enterprise services and features as if they were local to the client.
    </para>
    <para>
        The services provided and the actual configuration
        differ a lot from application server to application server. In some the client container is
        simply a set of required libraries while in others the client container may be an environment
        within which the client is executed.
    </para>
    <para>
        Client containers facilitate
        suitable
        environment for the client provides and
        manages the gateway between a Java EE client application and the Java EE server components.
    </para>
    <para>
        In particular it supports
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Native communication with services and resources, such as EJBs.  This may include support for
                    different communication protocols like RMI/SSL.
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Dependency injection of services and resources into client components.
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Seamless enforcement of security restrictions (authentication/authorisation) and
                    propagation of user identity.
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    Application servers may, but are not required to, provide a client container which is
                    distributable via Java WebStart.
                </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>

    </para>
</section>      