<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section
    xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" version="5.0">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <para>
        Increased global competitativeness and regulatory compliance
        has resulted in an environment which requires companies to be 
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                <emphasis>more flexible</emphasis>, such that they can more rapidly exploit market opportunities and address changing clients,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                <emphasis>leaner</emphasis>, in that they focus on their core business and can efficiently make use of external service providers
                to address those responsibilities which do not fall within its core business focus,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                <emphasis>more transparent</emphasis>, in that the business processes can be readily monitored and inspected.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        Historically many large organizations have been modelled around the hierarchical pattern. Even though the movement
        has been towards "flattening organizations", this mainly resulted in reducing the number of layers in the
        hierarchy without moving away from the hierarchical structure as such. Hierarchical organization often focus more
        on structure and accountability than on core focus delivery and business processes.
    </para>
    <para>
        A Services Oriented Enterprise (SOE), on the other hand, is more process and less structure focused. In a SOE, all activities
        in the organization are are focused on service delivery and value generation. In a SOE, every organizational component
        is viewed as a provider and potentially also consumer of services.
        It sees every element 
        of the organization from a service provider and consumer perspective. This shifts the focus of all aspects of the organization
        towards stake holder value generation and results in an organizational infrastructure which is more flexible, leaner and
        more transparent.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        The services sector has for some time been the dominant sector of most advanced economies.
        But, just because a company is a services company, it does not mean it is a Services Oriented Enterprise (SOE).
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>There is only a  services sector</title>
        <para>
            All organizations are, in principle, operating within the services sector. Even manufacturing
            companies ultimately provide product manufacturing services even though the revenue is obtained
            from selling products. This is, however, no different to traditional services companies packaging a collection
            of their services within a "product" and selling them as a product.
        </para>
        <para>
            For example, telecommunication providers often package their telecommunication services within products
            like data bundles.
        </para>
      </section>  
</section>    
    