<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    
    <title>The Outputs of ATAM</title>
    <para>
        An ATAM evaluation is expected to yield at least the following outputs:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>A concise presentation of the architecture</title>
                <para>
                    The presentation should present the architecture in a concise way focusing
                    on the core components, their responsibilities and their interactions. The
                    presentation will typically show the reference architectures and architectural
                    patterns used and may discuss the frameworks in which they are realized.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>The business vision and goals</title>
                <para>
                    This may be a direct copy of the vision and scope document for the project.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>The quality requirements</title>
                <para>
                    The quality attribute requirements in the context of the business goals.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Mapping of architectural decisions on quality requirements</title>
                <para>
                    This mapping provides the rationale behind the architectural decisions.
                    The generation of this mapping may be driven by what tactics an architectural
                    decision realizes.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>A set of identified sensitivity and trade-off points</title>
                <para>
                    These are the architectural decisions which have an influence on how the 
                    desired quality attributes are realized. The influence may be positive,
                    negative or both, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> an architectural decision can
                    affect one desired quality attribute positively and another negatively.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>A set of risks and non-risks</title>
                <para>
                    ATAM defines a risk as
                    <blockquote><para><emphasis>
                        an architectural decision that may lead to undesirable consequences in
                        the light of the stated quality attribute requirements.
                    </emphasis></para></blockquote>
                    A non-risk is, on the other hand, defined as
                    <blockquote><para><emphasis>
                        A non-risk is an architectural decision which, upon analysis, was found to
                        be safe with respect to realizing the stated quality attribute requirements.
                    </emphasis></para></blockquote>
                    The identified risks may form the basis for an <emphasis>architectural risk
                        mitigation plan</emphasis>.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>A set of risk themes</title>
                <para>
                    
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        
    </para>
</section>

    