<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-4-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Outline: Enterprise Architecture</title>

    <para>
        Enterprise architecture is a rapidly growing field whose importance cannot be under-estimated, Ultimately it is
        the enterprise architecture which needs to provide an organization a suitable infrastructure within which it can 
        realize its vision and mission. This course aims to provide a solid and practival understanding of the challanges 
        of enterprise architecture as well as how these challanges are addressed.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Introduction to Enterprise Architecture</title>
        <para>
          <itemizedlist>
              <listitem>
                  <formalpara>
                      <title>What is architecture</title>
                      <para>
                          We discuss what architecture in general is, look at various types of architecture including building architecture, 
                          organizational architecture, and enterprise systems architecture
                      </para>
                  </formalpara>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                  <formalpara>
                      <title>Why is architecture important?</title>
                      <para>
                          We discuss the problems organizations typically face when they do not put sufficient thought and effort into
                          specifying the enterprise architecture and show how the enterprise architecture should ultimately be driven by
                          the vision and mission of the organization. We highlight that enterprise architecture spans organizational
                          and systems architecture and the need of aligning the two.
                      </para>
                  </formalpara>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                  <formalpara>
                      <title>Architecture versus design and model driven approaches</title>
                      <para>
                          Here we discuss the difference and boundary between architecture and design. 
                          Where does architecture stop and where does design start? 
                          We discuss that business process design should be technology neutral and that the resultant
                          technology neutral design is mapped onto a realization within the specified architecture and technologies.
                          We show how a business process can be mapped onto a simple manual enterprise architecture as well
                          as onto sophisticated enterprise architectures including software solutions like an enterprise bus or
                          an application server.
                      </para>
                  </formalpara>
              </listitem>
              <listitem>
                  <formalpara>
                      <title>Responsibilities of enterprise architecture</title>
                      <para>
                            We discuss the responsibilities of architecture including that of
                            <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    assessing the architectural requirements,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    defining an architecture which realizes the stake holder requirements for and architecture,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    documenting an architecture,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    validating an architecture, 
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    overseeing the construction of an architecture and ensuring that the architecture is adhered to in the context
                                    of business process and/or system maintenance, and
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    assessing whether an existing architecture can adequately address the architectural requirements.
                                </para></listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                      </para>
                  </formalpara>
              </listitem>
          </itemizedlist>    
        </para>
        <para>
            Candidates will be requested to discuss their responsibilities within their organization as well as how they envisage to
            add more value to their organization through increased understanding and emphasis on enterprise architecture.
        </para>
    </section>    

    <section>
        <title>Stake holder requirements for an architecture</title>
        <para>
            Here we discuss the core elements of architectrural requirements including
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    organizational and systems scope,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    quality requirements, 
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    integration requirements, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    architectural constraints.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <para>
            We will analyze typical vision and
        </para>
        <para>
            Candidates will be requested to develop an architectural requirements specification for an organization and
            will be prompted to spot insufficiencies in some example requirements specifications.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Defining a conceptual architecture</title>
        <para>
            In this section we look at how one defines a conceptual architecture without having yet decided on any specific technologies
            or vendor products. In particular we look at 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    architectural strategies which one can use to realize the architectual requirements,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    proven architectural patterns and how they can be combined to define the core ifrastructure of an architecture, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    proven reference architectures and how they can assist in realizing common architectural requirements.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <para>
            We also look at how trade-off decisions need to be made and at how the conceptual architecture is documented.
        </para>
        <para>
            Candidates will be requested to define a conceptual architecture for the architectural requirements formulated in
            the previous section. The solutions will be discussed and guidance will be provided.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Defining an implementation architecture</title>
        <para>
            In this section we look at how one goes about selecting technologies, frameworks and vendor products to
            concretely realize the conceptual architecture. We discuss how competing solutions can be evaluated and
            how one select the implementation technologies which provide best stake holder value.
        </para>
        <para>
            we then look at how the implementation architecture is documented.
        </para>
        <para>
            Candidates will be requested to specify an implementation architecture for the conceptual architecture designed
            in the previous section.
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Assessing an architecture</title>
        <para>
            In this section we discuss how one assesses the suitability of an architecture or a vendor solution in the context of how
            it is alligned with the vision and mission of the organization. We look at how ATAM (the Architecture Tradeoff Analysis
            Method)  provides a structured framework for assessing architectures and vendor solutions.
        </para>
        <para>
            We then discuss how onemakes a solid proposal to manamgement for the chosen enterprise architecture.
        </para>
        <para>
            Candidates will be requested to assess two competing architectures based on the concepts discussed in this section.
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Conclusion</title>
        <para>
            We close the course by summarizing the most important concepts and techniques and by providing an outlook onto the future
            of enterprise architecture.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Scheduling</title>
        <para>
            On day one we will cover the introduction to architecture and architectural requirements. Day 2 will cover designing the conceptual
            and implementation architectures. Day 3 will look at assessing an enterprise architecture and include the conclusion for the course.
        </para>
    </section>

</section>
