<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section
    xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" version="5.0">
    <title>Evolving and organization into a SOE</title>
    <para>
        The process of evolving an organization into a services oriented enterprise needs to be planned 
        and carefully implemented. The approach should rather be an iterative tha a big-bang approach.
        Steps typically include
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                Formulate the vision for the SOE.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Develop and assess a proof of concept to support the business case for SOE,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Communicate the vision of an SOE across the organization and start growing the culture for an SOE.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Specifying the infrastructure (including systems infrastructure) requirements for the SOE.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Develop or source the architectural skills required for putting in place and validating the core SOE infrastructure.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Get business analysts up to speed with solid technology neutral business process and contract specification
                (potentially using URDAD as analysis and design methodology) and have business analysts across the organization
                contribute to an organization wide business model containing the organization's business processes.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Define the policies for security and service publication and service governance.  
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Develop or source the skills for effective service publication and
                get the various organizational units to define and publish the services they offer to the organization.
                Entrench the culture of an SOE across the organization.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Integrate the various applications and systems used within the organization using the enterprise services bus (ESB).
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Define the policies for external service provider selection and oversight.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Extract from the technology neutral business process designs the services contracts for external service providers,
                register the external service providers with the ESB and have the external services accessed through the ESB.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Define and implement the infrastructure for business process execution.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Remove the business processes from the various systems and departements and have them executed by the business 
                process execution infrastructure.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Shift the focus onto continuous business process optimization including continuous assessment for``best'' service providers.
                Remove all services from the organization which are not inline with the organization's vision and mission.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Evolve to dynamic service provider selection and full global integration of the enterprise.
            </para></listitem>
        </orderedlist>
        
    </para>
 </section>