<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    xml:id="components.technologies.www.http.response.4xxClientError.4xxClientError">
        <title>Client Error - 4xx</title>
        <para>
                The 4xx class of status code is intended for cases in which the client seems to have erred. Except when responding 
                to a HEAD request, the server should include an entity containing an explanation of the error situation, and 
                whether it is a temporary or permanent condition. These status codes are applicable to any request method. 
                User agents should display any included entity to the user.
        </para>
        <para>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>400 Bad Request</title>
                        <para>
                             The request could not be understood by the server due to malformed syntax. 
                             The client should not repeat the request without modifications.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>401 Unauthorized</title>
                        <para>
                             The request requires user authentication. The response must include a WWW-Authenticate header field 
                             containing a challenge applicable to the requested resource. The client may repeat the request with 
                             a suitable Authorization header field. If the request already included Authorization credentials, 
                             then the 401 response indicates that authorization has been refused for those credentials.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>402 Payment Required</title>
                        <para>
                            Reserved for future use.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>403 Forbidden</title>
                        <para>
                             The server understood the request, but is refusing to fulfill it. Authorization will not help and the 
                             request should not be repeated. If the request method was not HEAD and the server wishes to make public 
                             why the request has not been fulfilled, it should describe the reason for the refusal in the entity.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>404 Not Found</title>
                        <para>
                             The server has not found anything matching the Request-URI. No indication is given of whether the condition 
                             is temporary or permanent. The 410 (Gone) status code should be used if the server knows, through some 
                             internally configurable mechanism, that an old resource is permanently unavailable and has no 
                             forwarding address. This status code is commonly used when the server does not wish to reveal exactly 
                             why the request has been refused, or when no other response is applicable.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>405 Method Not Allowed</title>
                        <para>
                             The method specified in the Request-Line is not allowed for the resource identified by the Request-URI. 
                             The response must include an Allow header containing a list of valid methods for the requested 
                             resource.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>406 Not Acceptable</title>
                        <para>
                             The resource identified by the request is only capable of generating response entities which have 
                             content characteristics not acceptable according to the accept headers sent in the request.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>407 Proxy Authentication Required</title>
                        <para>
                             This code is similar to 401 (Unauthorized), but indicates that the client must first authenticate 
                             itself with the proxy. The proxy must return a Proxy-Authenticate header field containing a 
                             challenge applicable to the proxy for the requested resource.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>408 Request Timeout</title>
                        <para>
                             The client did not produce a request within the time that the server was prepared to wait. 
                             The client may repeat the request without modifications at any later time.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>409 Conflict</title>
                        <para>
                             The request could not be completed due to a conflict with the current state of the resource. 
                             This code is only allowed in situations where it is expected that the user might be able to 
                             resolve the conflict and resubmit the request. 
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>410 Gone</title>
                        <para>
                             The requested resource is no longer available at the server and no forwarding address is known. 
                             This condition is expected to be considered permanent. 
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>411 Length Required</title>
                        <para>
                             The server refuses to accept the request without a defined Content- Length. The client may 
                             repeat the request if it adds a valid Content-Length header field containing the length of 
                             the message-body in the request message.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>412 Precondition Failed</title>
                        <para>
                             The precondition given in one or more of the request-header fields evaluated to false 
                             when it was tested on the server.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>413 Request Entity Too Large</title>
                        <para>
                             The server is refusing to process a request because the request entity is larger than the 
                             server is willing or able to process. The server may close the connection to prevent the 
                             client from continuing the request.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>414 Request-URI Too Long</title>
                        <para>
                             The server is refusing to service the request because the Request-URI is longer than the 
                             server is willing to interpret.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>415 Unsupported Media Type</title>
                        <para>
                             The server is refusing to service the request because the entity of the request is in a format not 
                             supported by the requested resource for the requested method.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>416 Requested Range Not Satisfiable</title>
                        <para>
                             A server should return a response with this status code if a request included a Range request-header field, 
                             and none of the range-specifier values in this field overlap the current extent of the selected resource, 
                             and the request did not include an If-Range request-header field. 
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <formalpara>
                        <title>417 Expectation Failed</title>
                        <para>
                             The expectation given in an Expect request-header field could not be met by this server, 
                             or, if the server is a proxy, the server has unambiguous evidence that the request could 
                             not be met by the next-hop server.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara>                    
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>            
        </para>
</section>
