<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0b5/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" version="5.0">
    <title>Interpreting an URDAD based design</title>
    <para>
        This section provides some general guidelines around interpreting an URDAD based design.
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>User roles</title>
                <para>
                    User roles are represented by interfaces. Actual objects (authenticated principals) could be assigned one or more
                    user roles providing them access to all the services which should be accessible to any of the user roles assgined to them.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Associations in data structures</title>
                <para>
                    Associations in data structures are used to represent object identifiers. In the implementation mapping these can be mapped
                    onto ids, URIs, primary keys or any other object identification mechanism.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Pre- and post-conditions</title>
                <para>
                    Pre-conditions refer to conditions under which the service provider may refuse the service. If the service is refused due to a 
                    pre-condition not having been met a corresponding exception needs to be thrown. This does not represent an error on the 
                    side of the service provider as the service provider is entitled to refuse the service if any of the pre-conditions is not met.
                    However, if all pre-conditions are met the service provider is obliged to provide the service in such a way that, after having
                    provided the service, all post-conditions hold true. The post-conditions are to be tested in the unit tests for the contracts.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Use case/service equivalence</title>
                <para>
                    In URDAD a use case is interpreted as a requirement for a service. URDAD enforces a one-to-one correspondence between
                    use cases and services in services contracts.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        
    </para>    
</section>    