<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Consequences of the hierarchical/composite pattern</title>
    <para>
        The hierarchical pattern enforces a rigid tree-based structure. Enforcing such a  rigid structure commonly has benefits as well
        as disadvantages.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Benefits of the hierarchical pattern</title>
        <para>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    Reduced complexity because of the reduced number of links or communication paths.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Ability to rapidly find components.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Simplicity and understandability.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Hierarchical may provide a very efficient structure, including only the nodes which are actually required and being able to naturally
                    go to different depths across the structure.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The hierarchical pattern may provide an infrastructure for controlled access.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The hierarchical pattern may provide an infrastructure for accountability hierarchies.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Defines a natural environment for specifying commonalities on components which are inherited by child components.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Drawback of the hierarchical pattern</title>
        <para>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    Deep hierarchies typically impede fexibility.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    Often difficult to align structure with processes.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        
    </section>

</section>    