<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns2591:section xmlns:ns2591="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2ee.ejb.messaging.introduction.introduction">

    <ns2592:title xmlns:ns2592="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Introduction</ns2592:title>
    <ns2593:para xmlns:ns2593="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Prior to the EJB v2.0 specification there were only session beans and entity beans.
      Both of these processed synchronous service requests, <ns2594:abbrev xmlns:ns2594="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns2594:abbrev> the 
      client issued a service
      request and waited for a response. In fact, because these beans provide access to their
      services via their remote interfaces, there is no way for them to support true asynchronous
      service requests.
    </ns2593:para>
    <ns2595:para xmlns:ns2595="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      For many application domains the synchronous service request model is unsatisfactory.
      For example, when you place an order with one of your business partners you may be content
      to submit the order to a message queue for processing at your business partners convenience.
      In this model your business process can continue irrespective of whether the order has been
      processed already, even if your business partners systems are currently down.
    </ns2595:para>

    <ns2596:section xmlns:ns2596="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns2597:title xmlns:ns2597="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Support for JMS as a Managed Resource</ns2597:title>
      <ns2598:para xmlns:ns2598="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        To address this the EJB v2.0 and J2EE v1.3 standards require that access to messaging
        services which implement the Java Messaging Service (JMS) API must be supported via JMX --
        <ns2599:abbrev xmlns:ns2599="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns2599:abbrev> the JMS must be managed by application servers as a 
        managed resource.
      </ns2598:para>
    </ns2596:section>
    
    <ns2600:section xmlns:ns2600="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns2601:title xmlns:ns2601="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Message-Driven Beans</ns2601:title>
      <ns2602:para xmlns:ns2602="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        In addition, the EJB v2.0 specification requires that compliant application servers
        support message driven beans (MDB)s. Message Driven Beans are enterprise beans which
        process asynchronous service requests coming in from a JMS compliant messaging
        service.
      </ns2602:para>
    </ns2600:section>
    
    <ns2603:section xmlns:ns2603="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns2604:title xmlns:ns2604="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">How does a Message-Driven Bean Work</ns2604:title>
      <ns2605:para xmlns:ns2605="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Clients do not send service requests directly, but instead send the service request
        message to a messaging service which takes over the responsibility of delivering the
        service request to a service provider.
      </ns2605:para>
      
      <ns2606:section xmlns:ns2606="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns2607:title xmlns:ns2607="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Guaranteed Message Delivery</ns2607:title>
        <ns2608:para xmlns:ns2608="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          With guaranteed message delivery the MOM (Message-Oriented Middle ware) persists
          your message to a database or some other persistent storage resource until 
          <ns2609:itemizedlist xmlns:ns2609="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            <ns2610:listitem xmlns:ns2610="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              <ns2611:para xmlns:ns2611="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">the message has been sent AND </ns2611:para>
            </ns2610:listitem>
            <ns2612:listitem xmlns:ns2612="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              <ns2613:para xmlns:ns2613="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">the message consumer has acknowledged consumption and successful processing of a
                message OR </ns2613:para>
            </ns2612:listitem>
            <ns2614:listitem xmlns:ns2614="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              <ns2615:para xmlns:ns2615="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">until the message expires.</ns2615:para>
            </ns2614:listitem>
          </ns2609:itemizedlist>
        </ns2608:para>  
        <ns2616:para xmlns:ns2616="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          If acknowledgement of receipt is not received within some set time period the
          message is re-delivered.
        </ns2616:para>
      </ns2606:section>
      
      <ns2617:section xmlns:ns2617="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns2618:title xmlns:ns2618="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Certified Message Delivery</ns2618:title>
        <ns2619:para xmlns:ns2619="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          Certified message delivery is a special case of guaranteed message delivery where,
          in addition to the steps followed for guaranteed message delivery, the message
          originator is notified of the consumption of a message.
        </ns2619:para>
      </ns2617:section>
    </ns2603:section>
    
    <ns2620:section xmlns:ns2620="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns2621:title xmlns:ns2621="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Enterprise beans as asynchronous message recipients</ns2621:title>
      <ns2622:para xmlns:ns2622="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Message driven beans receive their service requests through a messaging service.
      </ns2622:para>
    </ns2620:section>
    
    <ns2623:section xmlns:ns2623="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns2624:title xmlns:ns2624="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Enterprise beans using a messaging service to send asynchronous messages</ns2624:title>
      <ns2625:para xmlns:ns2625="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Any of the enterprise beans may make asynchronous service requests via 
        a messaging service.
      </ns2625:para>
    </ns2623:section>  
  </ns2591:section>