<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns6086:section xmlns:ns6086="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.ooLanguage.compositionVersusAssociation.tightBindingViaComposition">
    
    <ns6087:title xmlns:ns6087="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Tight-Binding via Composition</ns6087:title>

<ns6088:para xmlns:ns6088="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Some of the objects are components (attributes) of other objects. For
example a cash flow has a payment and a date. The attributes
of a class are thus the components of the class. These components typically
have themselves attributes, <ns6089:abbrev xmlns:ns6089="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns6089:abbrev> further components. For example, the payment
itself has an amount and a currency.</ns6088:para>

<ns6090:para xmlns:ns6090="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Composition revolves around
<ns6091:itemizedlist xmlns:ns6091="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <ns6092:listitem xmlns:ns6092="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns6093:formalpara xmlns:ns6093="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns6094:title xmlns:ns6094="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Ownership</ns6094:title><ns6095:para xmlns:ns6095="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> If something belongs to me nobody is allowed to use it
                   without asking me. Similarly, a cashflow has a date and
                   an amount and these should be modified only via the cash
                   flow itself.</ns6095:para></ns6093:formalpara></ns6092:listitem>
  <ns6096:listitem xmlns:ns6096="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns6097:formalpara xmlns:ns6097="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns6098:title xmlns:ns6098="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Responsibility</ns6098:title><ns6099:para xmlns:ns6099="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> If there is a problem with the date, then there is a problem
                   with the cash flow itself. The aggregate object acquires
                   responsibility for its components.</ns6099:para></ns6097:formalpara></ns6096:listitem>
  <ns6100:listitem xmlns:ns6100="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns6101:formalpara xmlns:ns6101="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns6102:title xmlns:ns6102="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Tight State Coupling</ns6102:title><ns6103:para xmlns:ns6103="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> A change in the date or the amount results in
                   a change in the cashflow itself, <ns6104:abbrev xmlns:ns6104="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns6104:abbrev> a state transition in one
                   of the components of an aggregate object results in a state
                   transition of the aggregate object itself.</ns6103:para></ns6101:formalpara></ns6100:listitem>
  <ns6105:listitem xmlns:ns6105="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns6106:formalpara xmlns:ns6106="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns6107:title xmlns:ns6107="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Coincident Life Span</ns6107:title><ns6108:para xmlns:ns6108="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> The life span of the components is limited by
       the life span of the aggregate object. For example, if an account
       is destroyed, its balance is destroyed too.</ns6108:para></ns6106:formalpara></ns6105:listitem>
</ns6091:itemizedlist>
</ns6090:para>
<ns6109:para xmlns:ns6109="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">In Java we keep references to objects. True aggregation is achieved when the
container object is the only object which has handles (references) to its
components. In that case the components will be garbage collected when the
container is garbage collected (see section on LifeCycle). Furthermore,
if no other objects have references to the component objects no other object
can modify the component objects by sending messages to them. To achieve this
none of the methods, and in particular, none of the container object's query
methods, should return a reference to a component object. Instead they should
return a copy made via the <ns6110:emphasis xmlns:ns6110="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">clone()</ns6110:emphasis> method (see section on Cloning).</ns6109:para>
    
</ns6086:section>