<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns6111:section xmlns:ns6111="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.ooLanguage.compositionVersusAssociation.whyImmutableObjects">
    
    <ns6112:title xmlns:ns6112="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Why Immutable Objects?</ns6112:title>

<ns6113:para xmlns:ns6113="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Because the differentiation between composition and association is so subtle
and because giving away handles to component objects which can then be modified
by external objects is so dangerous, it is very common in Java to make objects
immutable, <ns6114:abbrev xmlns:ns6114="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns6114:abbrev> objects whose states cannot change.</ns6113:para>

<ns6115:para xmlns:ns6115="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">One example of an immutable object from the standard Java class is the
<ns6116:emphasis xmlns:ns6116="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">String</ns6116:emphasis> class. You can create Strings, but you can never modify them.
There are no methods which change the string, only methods which return a new
string. For example, string concatenation is achieved via the addition operator
(recall that this is an unfortunate Java quirk of having internally overloaded
the addition and assignment operators, even though Java does not support
operator overloading).</ns6115:para>

<ns6117:para xmlns:ns6117="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Similarly, we can define the <ns6118:emphasis xmlns:ns6118="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">CashFlow</ns6118:emphasis> class to be immutable. Recall that
a cash flow was a payment on a specific date.

<ns6119:programlisting xmlns:ns6119="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
public class CashFlow
{
  public CashFlow(Payment payment, Date date)
  {
    this.payment = payment;
    this.date    = date.clone();
  }

  public Payment value(Date date)
    {/* calculate value of cash flow on another date*/}

  public Payment getPayment() {return payment;}

  public Date getDate() {return date.clone();}

  private Payment payment;
  private Date date;
}
</ns6119:programlisting></ns6117:para>

<ns6120:para xmlns:ns6120="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Note that we have query-methods for the date and the payment, but that we do
not have corresponding set-methods. The date and the payment are thus instance
attributes of the class to which users have only read access. Furthermore,
since Java's <ns6121:emphasis xmlns:ns6121="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Date</ns6121:emphasis> class is mutable (via <ns6122:emphasis xmlns:ns6122="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">setTime()</ns6122:emphasis>), we should not
return a reference to the date itself in <ns6123:emphasis xmlns:ns6123="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">getDate()</ns6123:emphasis>, but a copy. This is
done via the <ns6124:emphasis xmlns:ns6124="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">clone()</ns6124:emphasis> method (we shall discuss cloning in more detail in
section \ref{secCloning}). For the same reason our class keeps a copy of the
date passed as argument to the constructor.</ns6120:para>

<ns6125:para xmlns:ns6125="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">On the other hand, we have not cloned the payment returned by <ns6126:emphasis xmlns:ns6126="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">getPayment()</ns6126:emphasis>
or the one received in the constructor. The reason for this is that the
<ns6127:emphasis xmlns:ns6127="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Payment</ns6127:emphasis> class is immutable (similar to <ns6128:emphasis xmlns:ns6128="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">CashFlow</ns6128:emphasis>) and we can thus
safely return a reference to the actual class attribute. It cannot be modified
anyway. If somebody wants to change the <ns6129:emphasis xmlns:ns6129="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Payment</ns6129:emphasis> they have to create a new
<ns6130:emphasis xmlns:ns6130="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Payment</ns6130:emphasis>, leaving the <ns6131:emphasis xmlns:ns6131="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">payment</ns6131:emphasis> object of our <ns6132:emphasis xmlns:ns6132="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">cashFlow</ns6132:emphasis> intact.</ns6125:para>

<ns6133:para xmlns:ns6133="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The <ns6134:emphasis xmlns:ns6134="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">date</ns6134:emphasis> is certainly a true component of a <ns6135:emphasis xmlns:ns6135="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">CashFlow</ns6135:emphasis> instance. It
has the same life span as the object itself and it can only be modified by the
object. The <ns6136:emphasis xmlns:ns6136="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">payment</ns6136:emphasis> can be also viewed as a component. It cannot be
modified at all and for reasons of efficiency we might as well share the object
with other objects.</ns6133:para>
    
</ns6111:section>