<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>ServletContext</title>
    <para>
        There is a single context (<literal>javax.servlet.ServletContext</literal>) per web application, which exists for the duration of the runtime of the application.
        This is a convenient place to store objects that need to be shared across several components within the same
        web module.
    </para>
    <para>
        The context is also used to communicate with the web container, i.e. to ask it for information, or to perform simple tasks such as add entries
        to the log file(s), or to request a resource. Some commonly used services:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>getResourceAsStream( String ) : InputStream</title>
                    <para>
                        Used to access the contents of a file within your web module. Since you don't know at development time where
                        a particular file will be deployed at runtime on a particular server, this is the only method of accessing the resources
                        you may package with your web module. The String path is relative to the root of the module,
                        e.g. <literal>servletContext.getResourceAsStream("/WEB-INF/some-file.xml")</literal>.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>getServerInfo() : String</title>
                    <para>
                        Get the name and version of the container in which your application is running.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>log( String) and log( String, Throwable )</title>
                    <para>
                        Will write the given information to the web container's error log file.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <para>
        Like the session object, the servlet context can act as a general map to store objects (in this case, for the duration of the application's
        deployment). This is accomplished through the <literal>getAttribute(:String)</literal> and <literal>setAttribute(:String, :Object)</literal>
        services.
    </para>
</section>