<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Benefits of a SOA-based software systems</title>
    <para>
       SOA based systems are maturing and most large organizations are either exploring their use or are
       actively moving to using them. This obviously shows that IT teams and organizations expect to obtain significant
       benefits from these technologies.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Reduced complexity</title>
        <para>
            The shift from a structured to a services centered focus results in a significant reduction of conceptual
            and technical complexity.
            At any stage one typically needs to concern oneself only about a particular service at a particular
            level of granularity. The higher level services and lower level service implementations are 
            decoupled through well defined services contracts.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Shorter time to market and increased flexibility</title>
        <para>
            A SOA typically enables one to achieve shorter time to market and increased flexibility through
            the complexity reduction, increased level of reuse which one typically achieves within this infrastructure,
            and through the simpler integration environment.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Simpler, more reliable paradigm for reuse</title>
        <para>
            Published services with their associated services contracts nurtures an environment
            of reuse.
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Testability</title>
        <para>
            Well defined services contracts directly lead to testability.
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Standards based</title>
        <para>
            SOA standardizes many aspects from discovery to communication, addressing, contract specification,
            data structure and data transformation specification, security, messaging and
            business process specification to service management and other aspects.
            These standards
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                  reduce integration costs,   
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    secure long-term investment,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    are often more mature than rapidly changing proprietary solutions,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    have usually good tools support,                    
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    reduce vendor lock-in and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    reduce technology and methodology proliferation.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Less implementation errors</title>
        <para>
            A SOA typically enables one to reduce the bug ratio through the contracts based approach,
            testability, reduced complexity and increased reuse.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Monitorability and manageability through the framework</title>
        <para>
            Monitoring and management facilities do not have to be built into applications, they
            are provided by the SOA itself.
        </para>
    </section>
     
</section> 