<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>When would you start a new branch?</title>
    <para>
        It is often a good practice to temporarily, or, at times, permanently branch. Examples of situations where one would want to create
        a new branch include
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                You have to do some significant rework (e.g. refactoring) or bug fix which will temporarily break the system. 
                If you do not use branching you will either 
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        do the work locally and in private without any support from the version control system, 
                        committing only once the work is complete, or        
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        you will continue to commit incrementally into the main development trunk, breaking it for a few commits.                        
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
                In such cases you would typically do the work in a new branch. Once the tests pass you would merge the branch back into
                the main development trunk.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                You need to do some maintenance work on a release which is used by the client. However, this maintenance work should
                not impact on the current development initiative. This work can be done in a separate branch and some of the features
                may be, at a later stage, merged back ino the main development trunck.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                You want to try out something which you are uncertain of you need a scratch pad to do this. However, you still want the support
                of a version control system. Such work would typically be done in a separate branch.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>
