<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-20 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Transition</title>


    <para> During the transition phase the product is deployed on the client side and opened to the
        user community. Once the product is used problems feedback about problems or minor changes
        to the requirements Specification are the norm. The reasonable requests should be taken up
        and the requirements Specification and product should be revised to support these.
        Incomplete features should also be added and tested during this phase. </para>
    <para> During the transition phase the system is subjected to the following: <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para> The user testing phase is usually called "beta testing". This may require
                    some user training. The system is tested in its real environment and against
                    user expectations. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> If some or all of the use cases were previously delivered by some legacy
                    system (manual or computerized), the new system usually runs for some time in
                    simulation mode next to the legacy system. Any difference in behavior and
                    results should be understood. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> Users and maintainers and potentially marketing staff are trained to fulfill
                    their roles in the context of the new system. The client should potentially
                    achieve self-supportability. </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> If applicable, the product is rolled out to the marketing, distribution and
                    sales teams and maintenance teams should be trained. </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Evaluation criteria for the transition phase</title>
        <para> The evaluation for the transition phase are <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Is the user satisfied with the product. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Are the actual expenditures versus the planned expenditures still
                        acceptable?</para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>


</section>
