<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    
    <title>JSP 1.x Pages</title>
    <para>
        JSP <emphasis>Pages</emphasis> are the original JSP version, originating in the late 1990s. These
        typically consist of SGML-based HTML pages that contain snippets
        of Java code within one of three types of tags:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Expression &lt;%= ... %&gt;</title>
                    <para>The expression is evaluated, and the value would be printed to the resulting output. For
                    example, <literal>&lt;p&gt;Hello, &lt;%= customer.getName() %&gt;.&lt;/p&gt;</literal></para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Declaration &lt;%! ... %&gt;</title>
                    <para>Allows for the declaration of variables and methods that have <emphasis>instance scope</emphasis>,
                    i.e. they exist across requests directed to the JSP. Used to write methods within the JSP, or declare instance
                        vriables.</para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Scriptlet &lt;% ... %&gt;</title>
                    <para>An arbitrary container for java code to execute logic (display or otherwise), e.g.
                    to get or prepare the information (objects) before rendering it, or conditionally render portions
                    of the JSP. Invoked each time the JSP is requested.</para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        JSP Pages introduced the following benefits to the world of Java Servlets:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>The separation of roles between Java developer (who writes classes) and Web page author (who writes
                web pages, containing JSP tags and expressions)</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>The separation of responsibility within your application: Business logic should be performed by
                business objects, and JSP is simply responsible for capturing data to provide to, or rendering information
                received from, controller objects.</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>A simple method for writing dynamic web content, with all the benefits of an interpreted scripting language
                such as <literal>ASP</literal>, with the performance of compiled Java code (Servlets).</para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <xi:include href="drawbacks.docbook"/>
</section>