<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>UIComponent</title>
    <para>
        This is the base class for all faces components. It provides the common under-the hood
        functionality required by the JSF framework from any component and also enables the user
        to specify, amongst other things, 
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                whether the component should be rendered or not (using the <literal>rendered</literal>
                attribute for the corresponding component tag), e.g.
                <programlisting><![CDATA[
<h:commandButton value="#{msgs.placeOrder}"
                 rendered="#{captureOrderBinding.conditionsAccepted"}
                 action="#{captureOrderBinding.submitOrder()"}/>                 
                    ]]></programlisting>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                a <literal>disabled</literal> attribute which is a boolean flag that, 
                when set to <literal>true</literal>, indicates that this component should 
                not receive focus or be included in a form submit.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Components and component tags</title>
        <para>
            The use of components is usually not directly requested in Java code. Presentation layer
            developers normally request the use of components by inserting component tags into the
            facelet XHTML file. 
        </para>
        <para>
            Thus, for concrete JSF component there is a corresponding component tag.
            For example, the component tag for <literal>HtmlCommandButton</literal> is 
            <literal><![CDATA[<h:commandButton/>]]></literal>.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Assigning standard (X)HTML tags to component tags</title>
        <para>
            Since components are requested through standard XHTML tags, the user can specify any of the
            standard (X)HTML tags for any component.
        </para>
        <para>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>accesskey</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>accesskey</literal> attribute is a standard HTML attribute 
                        that sets the access key that transfers focus to this element when pressed.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>alt</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>alt</literal> attribute is a standard HTML attribute that sets 
                        the alternate textual description rendered by this component.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>id</title>
                    <para>
                        A unique identifier (unique for the page) for the component. This can
                        be used to, for example, uniquely associate labels with the component, 
                        or to assign some styling to a particular component.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>onblur</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>onblur</literal> attribute sets the JavaScript code to execute 
                        when this component loses focus.
                        <note><para>
                            In JSF JavaScript is usually used within the AJAX framework.
                        </para></note>
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>onchange</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>onchange</literal> attribute sets the JavaScript code to 
                        execute when this component loses focus and its value changes after gaining focus.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>onclick and ondblclick</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>onclick</literal> and <literal>ondblclick</literal> attributes 
                        set the JavaScript code to execute when the mouse pointer is clicked 
                        or double-clicked over this component.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>onfocus</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>onfocus</literal> attribute sets the JavaScript code to execute 
                        when the component receives focus.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>onkeydown, onkeyup, onkeypress</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>onkeydown</literal>, <literal>onkeyup</literal> and
                        <literal>onkeypress</literal> attributes set the JavaScript code 
                        to execute when a key is pressed down, up or pressed-and-released 
                        over this component.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>onmouseover, onmouseout, and onmousemove</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>onmouseover</literal>, <literal>onmouseout</literal>, and
                        <literal>onmousemove</literal> attributes set the JavaScript code to 
                        execute when the mouse pointer is moved onto, away from or within this component.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>onmousedown and onmouseup</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>onmousedown</literal> and <literal>onmouseup</literal>
                        attributes set the JavaScript code to execute when the mouse pointer 
                        is pressed down or released over this component.
                        <note><para>
                            The JavaScript/AJAX receives the event and from the event it will
                            be able to query which mouse button triggered the event.
                        </para></note>
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>onselect</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>onselect</literal> attribute sets the JavaScript code to 
                        execute when the user selects the text contained by this component.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>style</title>
                    <para>
                        The style attribute sets the CSS style definition to be applied to this
                        component when it is rendered.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>styleClass</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>styleClass</literal> attribute sets the CSS class to apply 
                        to this component when it is rendered.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>tabindex</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>tabindex</literal> attribute is a standard HTML attribute 
                        that sets the order in which this element receives focus when the user 
                        cycles through the elements using the TAB key. The value for this 
                        attribute must be a short non-signed integer, i.e. an integer 
                        between 0 and 32767. 
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>title</title>
                    <para>
                        The <literal>title</literal> attribute is a standard HTML attribute that 
                        sets the tooltip text to display for the rendered component.                    
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>    
</section>    
