<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>The Linux Loader (LILO)</title>
    <para>
        LILO is the original boot loader for Linux which, though still supported, is largely replaced
        by GRUB. This is due to several significant disadvantages against GRUB including the following:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                LILO supports a maximum of 16 boot selections (GRUB unlimited).
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                LILO cannot boot from a network.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The MBR entry must be overwritten every time you change the LILO configuration (this also adds risk), while
                GRUB loads the configuration file in a second boot loading stage from any drive,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                LILO does not have a command processing environment and hence, when the LILO configuration is corrupt 
                you will need to boot from a separate drive to fix the problem.                    
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                LILO does not understand file systems and has to load the kernel from a physical position on the disk.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <note>
        <para>
            LILO stores information regarding the location of the operating systems it can to load physically on the MBR. 
            If you change your LILO config file, you have to rewrite the LILO stage one boot loader to the MBR. Compared with GRUB, 
            this is a much more risky option since a misconfigured MBR could leave the system unbootable. With GRUB, if the 
            configuration file is configured incorrectly, it will simply default to the GRUB command-line interface.
        </para>
    </note>
</section>
