<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<chapter xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <title>Introduction</title>

  <para> The universal accessibility of the World Wide Web has caused it to become the 
    single most important platform for delivering applications to users. 
  </para>
  <para>
    More and more complex services are delivered through the same simplistic
    protocol developed almost twenty years ago by Sir Tim Berners-Lee (HTTP), which means that the developer needs
    ever more powerful application frameworks on the web server to minimise complexity.
  </para>
  <para> The Java EE platform provides a standard infrastructure within which to deploy 
    multi-tiered enterprise applications with a number of desirable architectural qualities (such as strong security, scalability, reliability,
    maintainability, and portability). </para>
  <para> This material covers the knowledge needed to produce a presentation-layer (or <emphasis>web
      front-end</emphasis>) for a Java EE system. After reviewing the Java EE architecture, we start off
    by covering some necessary groundwork, such as 
    <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>understanding of the HTTP protocol,</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>a basic coverage of XML (namespaces, schema),</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>XHTML and CSS as the vocabulary for producing web pages, and</para>
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
        <para>Apache Ant as a tool to automate tasks for the developer.</para>
      </listitem>
    </itemizedlist>
  </para>
  <para>
    The bulk of the material covers the fundamentals of the Java Server Faces API and the Facelet 
    frameworks.
  </para>
  <para>
    Part of the attraction of Java EE is the ability to configure infrastructure services such as
    role-based security, clustering, and performance-enhancing measures - this is covered next.
  </para>
  <para>
    To remove further medial tasks from the web developer, Java EE contains the Java Server Faces (JSF)
    web application framework. We cover the basics and practicalities of this framework, and we relate 
    it to various other approaches.
  </para>

</chapter>
