<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Service registry</title>
    <para>
        The service registry is a core component of any SOA which is required to facilitate
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                efficient integration and service usage,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                service reuse,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                quality management,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                and governance.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        Efficient integration, service usage and reuse is facilitated through service discovery, 
        service contract publication and supporting standard and different service bindings.
    </para>
    <para>
        Quality management and governance is facilitated through contract verification and 
        enforcing quality standards around contracts.
    </para>

    <para>
        A service registry hosts and facilitates the management of service metadata. It enables 
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                service providers to expose and advertize their services,        
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                service consumers to discover services and any relevant information around these services,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the registry authority to manage services, and
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                service governance
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Service discovery</title>
        <para>
            Service discovery envisages that service registries publish sufficient descriptive information
            about services for automated software agents to be able to locate services on the internet which address
            the client's needs. This field is still in its infancy providing currently only quite limited mechanisms for
            service discovery. One can expect that, as semnatic web technologies mature and become more main-stream,
            service registries will be able to provide more sophisticated and valuable methods for service discovery.
        </para>
            
        <para>
            Two core service discovery mechanisms supported at this stage are based on the concepts of a naming
            and a trader service.
        </para>
        
        <section>
            <title>The naming service</title>
            <para>
                A naming service enables users to look up a service from a location transaparent name, 
                <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> by a unique identifier for a service.
            </para>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Trader service</title>
            <para>
                A trader service is used to find a service provider which can realize a client's current needs
                without the client having a handle or a name to a suitable service provider.
                A trader service enables find suitable service provider on
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        the services contract the client needs to have realized, and        
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        some set of specified service properties,                    
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        a user-defined taxonomy of services, or
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        a combination of the above.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Publishing services contracts</title>
        <para>
            Services contracts are used 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    by service consumers to specify/advertize their service needs, and by        
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    service providers to publish/advertize their service offering.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            The information published with a services contract will typically contain
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    a name for the service,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    information on how the service can be accessed, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> the different types of
                    service bindings which are available to potential service consumers,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the data structures for any exchanged value objects,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the conditions under which the service may be refused,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    message exchange patterns for services, 
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    non-functional requirements like security requirements, reliability requirements, scalability requirements, ...
                    for services, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    business processes for services assembled from lower level services.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
          </para>  
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Service reflection</title>
        <para>
            The service registry enables user who have an identifier for a service to request
            the contract which is realized by the service as well as a range of other meta-data
            which ahs been published for the service.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Service management and governance</title>
        <para>
            The service registry is also very valuable for servie managment and governance. It is used to
            for
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    service life cycle management,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    version control,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    controlling access to services including role-based access control to services, 
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    change management including change notification to clients,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    ensuring that business processes are complient with regulations and industry guidelines,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    ensuring that service dependencies are met, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> that lower level services 
                    required by a higher level service are available, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    that service contracts meet requirements.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Host for trading partner agreements</title>
        <para>
            
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>    