<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Distribution Information</title>
    <para>
        One can include distribution information in the <literal>distributionManagement</literal>
        section of the project's object mode. This provides information
        which is typically used for deployment or to make the resultant artifact available for other projects.
        In addition one can specify the URL which should be used by other projects when downloading
        the deployed artifact. This is done in the <literal>downloadURL</literal> element.
        Maven itself adds a <emphasis>status</emphasis> element which specifies the status of the 
        distribution.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Specifying distribution Info</title>
        <para>
            The distribution information contains an id, name and url of the distribution repositories for the project's
            artifacts as well as a flag whether unique versions should be created by adding a time stamp to the file
            names. The distibution management section allows for a main and a snapshot repository.
        </para>
        <para>
        For example, 
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
        <project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0"
          xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
          xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0
                              http://maven.apache.org/xsd/maven-4.0.0.xsd">
          ...
          <distributionManagement>
            <repository>
              <uniqueVersion>false</uniqueVersion>
              <id>solmsMain</id>
              <name>Solms Main Repository</name>
              <url>scp://solms.co.za/repository/main</url>
              <layout>default</layout>
            </repository>
            <snapshotRepository>
              <uniqueVersion>true</uniqueVersion>
              <id>solmsDev</id>
              <name>Solms Development Repository</name>
              <url>sftp://propellers.net/maven</url>
              <layout>default</layout>
            </snapshotRepository>
            ...
          </distributionManagement>
          ...
        </project>
        ]]></programlisting>
        specifies a main and a development repository. The development repository adds time stamp information to the artifact 
        names in order to ensure unique versions.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Specifying login credentials</title>
        <para>
            Obviously one should not distribute the server login credentials (username, password, path to private key, ...)
            with the POM. These should remain on the build server and are specified in the <literal>settings.xml</literal>
            file:
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
    <settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
        xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
        xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
        http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">
        ...
        <servers>
            <server>
                <id>solms.co.za</id>
                <username>myUserName</username>
                <password>myPassword</password>
                <privateKey>${user.home}/.ssh/id_dsa</privateKey>
                <passphrase>myPassphrase</passphrase>
                <filePermissions>664</filePermissions>
                <directoryPermissions>775</directoryPermissions>
            </server>
        </servers>
        ...
    </settings>
                ]]></programlisting>
            The permissions are used when creating new files and directories, i.e. these are the permissions
            to be used for any new files.
        </para>
     </section>   
</section>    