<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-2-18 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Responsibilities of quality assurance</title>
    <para>
        Quality assurance is responsible to assess whether the end product meets its requirements including
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the functional requirements (i.e. that the services do what they need to do), as well as
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the quality requirements like reliability, performance, scalability, maintainability, cost and so on.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        In addition there may be standard around the way the work needs to have been done and the documentation
        which needs to be provided. Quality assurance is responsible to check that these standards are adhered to.
    </para>
    <para>
        If any quality issues are detected they need to be communicated to the design, architecture or
        implementation team in order to have these deficiencies addressed.
    </para>    
    <note>
        <title>What is quality?</title>
        <para>
            One needs to specify how to measure quality. Is a luxury sedan higher quality than a low cost 
            economy vehicle. That would depend on the extend to which each satisfies the user's
            functional and non-functional requirements. Assuming both satisfy the functional requirements,
            then it depends what the user's quality requirements are.
        </para>
        <para>
            If the quality requirements are cost as well as fuel and space efficiency, then the low cost economy vehicle may
            be of higher quality than the luxury sedan.
        </para>
    </note>
    
</section>
