<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Repeated template application</title>
    <para>
        The <literal><![CDATA[<ui:composition/>]]></literal> tag cannot be used to
        insert a content multiple times as the latest insertion will replace the
        previous insertion.
    </para>
    <para>
        If we want to have similar content to be inserted multiple times into a page, we
        may want to be able to define that each insertion should conform to a template.
        For this purpose the <literal><![CDATA[<ui:decorate/>]]></literal> tag is used.
    </para>
    <para>
        In our example we have an <literal>auxillaryContent</literal> region in our
        main template which is meant to host auxillary information to the main information
        conveyed with the page. It can, for example, be used to render news items of
        our weather buro. Each auxillary content item, however, has a header and a body and 
        we may want to define a template on how an auxillary content item is to be rendered.
        To this end we would define an <literal>auxillaryContentTemplate</literal>:
        <programlisting>
<xi:include parse="text" href="../../examples/weatherBuro/web/src/main/webapp/faces/auxillaryContentTemplate.xhtml"/>     
        </programlisting>
        Here <literal>#title</literal> specifies a <literal>title</literal> parameter for our
        template.
    </para>
    <para>    
        Our page needs to allow us to insert multiple auxillary content (news) items
        into the page. We supply each item with an <literal><![CDATA[<ui:decorate/>]]></literal> tag,
        specifying the title as a template parameter:
        <programlisting>
<xi:include parse="text" href="../../examples/weatherBuro/web/src/main/webapp/faces/news.xhtml"/>     
        </programlisting>
    </para>
</section>    
