<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0b5/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns2646:section xmlns:ns2646="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.platforms.linux.networkServices.apache.server">

	<ns2647:title xmlns:ns2647="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Setting up an apache web Server</ns2647:title>
	<ns2648:para xmlns:ns2648="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
	The apache web server is distributed with most linux distributions, and typically installed from RPM files, as are most apache modules, some of which are also included in the distributions. The web server is controlled by the <ns2649:emphasis xmlns:ns2649="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">/etc/init.d/httpd</ns2649:emphasis> startup script. Log and configuration files reside in <ns2650:emphasis xmlns:ns2650="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">/etc/httpd/log</ns2650:emphasis> and <ns2651:emphasis xmlns:ns2651="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">/etc/httpd/conf</ns2651:emphasis> directories respectively. The configuration file<ns2652:emphasis xmlns:ns2652="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf</ns2652:emphasis> contains some parameters to note. The <ns2653:emphasis xmlns:ns2653="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">ServerName</ns2653:emphasis> configures the server name of the apache instance. Usually the ServerName parameter is configured by doing a reverse dns lookup on the ip address. Should the lookup fail, a message is displayed during server startup. 
	</ns2648:para>
	<ns2654:section xmlns:ns2654="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2655:title xmlns:ns2655="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Virtual Hosting</ns2655:title>
		<ns2656:para xmlns:ns2656="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		To configure a single apache web server to host multiple sites, add the following set of parameters to the configuration file.
		</ns2656:para>
		<ns2657:programlisting xmlns:ns2657="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		
...		
# Use name-based virtual hosting.
#
NameVirtualHost *

#
# VirtualHost example:
# Almost any Apache directive may go into a VirtualHost container.
# The first VirtualHost section is used for requests without a known
# server name.
#
&lt;VirtualHost *&gt;
    ServerAdmin webmaster@j2anywhere.com
    DocumentRoot /var/www/j2anywhere.com
    ServerName j2anywhere.com
    ErrorLog logs/j2anywhere.com-error_log
    CustomLog logs/j2anywhere.com-access_log common
&lt;/VirtualHost&gt;
...
			
		</ns2657:programlisting>
		<ns2658:para xmlns:ns2658="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		This adds a virtual configuration for <ns2659:emphasis xmlns:ns2659="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">j2anywhere.com</ns2659:emphasis> to be handled by the server. The root document for this domain resides in <ns2660:emphasis xmlns:ns2660="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">/var/www/j2anywhere.com</ns2660:emphasis> directory. 
		</ns2658:para>
	</ns2654:section>	
</ns2646:section>