<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-20 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>The four basic values of XP</title>
    
    <indexterm>
        <primary>Extreme programming</primary>
        <secondary>basic values</secondary>
    </indexterm>

    <para> XP is based on five core values which drive the entire process and its practices: <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>Communication </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Simplicity </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Feedback </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Courage</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>Respect</para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Communication</title>
        <para> XP aims to simplify communication and favours face-to-face communication wherever
            possible. </para>
        <para> Constant communication with the client is facilitated in XP by requiring that the
            customer should always be on-site. Communication between developers is driven partially
            by introducing the concept of pair programming. The customer decides what will be built
            and in what order. </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Simplicity</title>
        <para> Constant refactoring of the design and code is introduced in XP to ensure that
            simplicity is continuously maximized. Furthermore, XP requires a minimal set of non-code
            artifacts (status reports, formal requirements specifications, grant charts, ...).
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Feedback</title>
        <para> Feedback is achieved in XP through <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Releasing increments to the customer in very short intervals. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Introducing unit tests for each code unit. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Running acceptance tests for each release.</para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Courage</title>
        <para> Courage is about <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Being honest about what you can and cannot do. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Being honest about their progress.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para>Doing the correct thing which you know works, even if it is not good for
                        your popularity.</para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Having the courage of changing somebody elses code and throwing code
                        away. <note>
                            <para> XP developers are encouraged to build for today preventing being
                                bogged down in design. </para>
                        </note>
                    </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Respect</title>
        <para> XP programmers should respect the clients understanding of their changing needs. They
            should respect each other and respect their work. Each person should mould their
            contribution to the team such that they earn respect for what they contribute. </para>
    </section>

</section>
