<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    
    <title>Example applications</title>
    <para>
        Mementos are used when the state of an object has to be captured without breaking encapsulation
        in order to be able to reconstruct that state at some later stage.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Preserving session state across client sessions</title>
        <para>
            At times one may want to store the state of a session so that the session state can be
            reconstructed in some future session of a client. This particularly useful for remote
            clients like web clients using, for example, servlet and JSP technologies.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Version control systems</title>
        <para>
            Version control systems are designed to be able to restore an object's state at some prior
            date/time or other criterion. Conceptually they store sequences of mementos.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Entity objects in an object pool</title>
        <para>
            The concept of an entity object is based on the premise that from a client's perspective
            entity objects exist always. The physical memory-based entity objects are however limited
            and enterprise application servers like EJB servers use the concept of a pool of skeleton
            entity objects (a pool of entity beans in EJB) each of which is populated with the state of the
            entity object it currently represents. 
        </para>
        <para>
            When a client accesses a particular entity object, one of the entity beans is selected from the
            bean pool and populated with the state of that entity object. At some later stage the state
            is persisted back to the database.
        </para>
        <para>
            Effectively, the database is a storage of mementos from which the state of any entity object
            can be reconstructed.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Undo/redo support</title>
        <para>
            Editing and drawing applications may use mementos to support undo and redo operations.
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>
