<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns34:section xmlns:ns34="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.transactions.introduction.introduction">

  <ns35:title xmlns:ns35="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Introduction</ns35:title>
  <ns36:para xmlns:ns36="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    So far it seems that EJBs have put us into a position where we can write server side
    business logic very efficiently with bean developers focusing exclusively on the definition
    of business logic and business information. The container supplies us with 
    <ns37:itemizedlist xmlns:ns37="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns38:listitem xmlns:ns38="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns39:para xmlns:ns39="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          The ability to offer location transparent remote services to clients without having
          to explicitly code for RMI or CORBA. 
        </ns39:para>
      </ns38:listitem>
      <ns40:listitem xmlns:ns40="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns41:para xmlns:ns41="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Automatic processing of concurrent clients. </ns41:para>
      </ns40:listitem>
      <ns42:listitem xmlns:ns42="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns43:para xmlns:ns43="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Resource pooling. </ns43:para>
      </ns42:listitem>
      <ns44:listitem xmlns:ns44="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns45:para xmlns:ns45="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Declarative security. </ns45:para>
      </ns44:listitem>
      <ns46:listitem xmlns:ns46="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns47:para xmlns:ns47="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Either 
        <ns48:itemizedlist xmlns:ns48="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          <ns49:listitem xmlns:ns49="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            <ns50:para xmlns:ns50="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Declarative persistence entirely controlled by the container or </ns50:para>
          </ns49:listitem>
          <ns51:listitem xmlns:ns51="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns52:para xmlns:ns52="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              Programmatic persistence with the container ensuring the synchronization of
              information over different client views.
            </ns52:para>
          </ns51:listitem>
        </ns48:itemizedlist>
          </ns47:para>
      </ns46:listitem>
    </ns37:itemizedlist>
  </ns36:para>
  <ns53:para xmlns:ns53="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    However, for robust enterprise applications we still need support for transactions.
    Generally this requires that developers use some transaction service 
    (<ns54:abbrev xmlns:ns54="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">e.g.</ns54:abbrev> the CORBA
    transaction service). They would manually demarcate and commit or roll-back transactions via
    calls to a transaction API.
  </ns53:para>
  <ns55:para xmlns:ns55="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    EJBs support complete declarative transactions, removing the responsibility of
    programming for transactions from the bean developer.
  </ns55:para>

  <ns56:section xmlns:ns56="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns57:title xmlns:ns57="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Why Transactions?</ns57:title>
    <ns58:para xmlns:ns58="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Let's have a look at some problems which are addressed by transactions. In
      particular, consider the need for 
    <ns59:itemizedlist xmlns:ns59="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns60:listitem xmlns:ns60="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns61:para xmlns:ns61="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Either completing a set of operations as a whole or unwinding the set of
          operations. </ns61:para>
      </ns60:listitem>
      <ns62:listitem xmlns:ns62="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns63:para xmlns:ns63="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Safe concurrent access to shared information. </ns63:para>
      </ns62:listitem>
      <ns64:listitem xmlns:ns64="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns65:para xmlns:ns65="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Graceful recovery from a server crash or network problem.</ns65:para>
      </ns64:listitem>
    </ns59:itemizedlist>
    </ns58:para>
    
    <ns66:section xmlns:ns66="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns67:title xmlns:ns67="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Atomic Operations</ns67:title>
      <ns68:para xmlns:ns68="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Sometimes a set of operations have to be completed as a whole or they have to be
        undone such that the state of the effected objects is the same as what it was before the
        set of operations was started -- <ns69:abbrev xmlns:ns69="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns69:abbrev>. the set of operations has to be rolled back.
      </ns68:para>
      <ns70:para xmlns:ns70="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        For example, in the case of a transfer one account is debited and another is
        credited. The transfer must be an atomic operation. If the debit fails the credit cannot
        be performed.
      </ns70:para>
      <ns71:para xmlns:ns71="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Conversely, if the debit was successful but the credit failed (because, say, the
        account has been closed) the debit has to be reversed.
      </ns71:para>
    </ns66:section>
    
    <ns72:section xmlns:ns72="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns73:title xmlns:ns73="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Safe Concurrent Access to Shared Information</ns73:title>
      <ns74:para xmlns:ns74="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        If multiple clients access information simultaneously one has to ensure that 
      <ns75:itemizedlist xmlns:ns75="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns76:listitem xmlns:ns76="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          <ns77:para xmlns:ns77="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Any information received represents a valid, sensible view of the business
            information and is not corrupted by the fact that clients are looking at information
            which is only partially updated. </ns77:para>
        </ns76:listitem>
        <ns78:listitem xmlns:ns78="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          <ns79:para xmlns:ns79="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The information is safe with respect to updating by multiple clients.
            Simultaneous updating can lead to a situation where the resulting set of information
            is not a valid set because it contains elements of different interleaving updates
            from different information providers.</ns79:para>
        </ns78:listitem>
      </ns75:itemizedlist>
      <ns80:note xmlns:ns80="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns81:para xmlns:ns81="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Note furthermore that the information may be distributed across multiple databases
        within the organization (or even across organizations) and that the integrity of this
        distributed information must be protected.
      </ns81:para></ns80:note>
     </ns74:para>
    </ns72:section>
    
    <ns82:section xmlns:ns82="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns83:title xmlns:ns83="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Graceful Failure Recovery</ns83:title>
      <ns84:para xmlns:ns84="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Consider the situation where a client withdraws funds from a auto teller. In the
        process of the withdrawal the network fails. The bank server may not be in a position to
        know whether the funds have been issued to the client or not.
      </ns84:para>
      <ns85:para xmlns:ns85="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        After recovering from the network failure the information of whether the money has
        been issued to the client or not must be communicated to the server. If not, the debit
        of the account must be rolled back.
      </ns85:para>
    </ns82:section>
  </ns56:section>
</ns34:section>