<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-1-15 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Completeness</title>
    <para>
        A technology neutral design is complete when the only information required in addition to the design is the
        technologies and infrastructure into which the process is to be deployed. 
    </para>
    
        <para>
            In order to measure the completeness of a technology neutral design directly we have to assess what we require for the
            implementation mapping. 
        </para>
        <para>
            In a services-oriented approach a complete process design for a service would have to include
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the full specification of the inputs and outputs of the business process,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the business process showing how the service is assembled across lower level services, the decision and merge
                    points in the business process, any concurrency and synchronization points in the business process
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    and recursively, for each lower level service requested in the business process, 
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            how the request objects are constructed from the information available at that point in the business process,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            for lower level composite services the business process showing how the service is assembled across lower level services,
                            as well as how the requests and outputs are constructucted from the available information.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            for leaf services, how the result is to be constructed from the available information as well as any changes which must
                            have been made to the environment within which the service is executed, and
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            for services which are outsourced to external systems/service providers, the complete services contract with
                            inputs, outputs, pre- and post-conditions and quality requirements.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            how the response objects are to be constructed from the available information.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        <para>
            The testability of a design with thus be propertional to the fraction of services which are testable. However, a proportion of the services
            which are not fully testable may still be partially testable. For example, if the quality requirements have not been specified, the functional
            requirements may still be testable. Another example of a partially testable service is one for which the inputs and outputs have been 
            specified, but where the post-conditions have not been fully specified.
        </para>
        <para>
            Furthermore, if contract elements (e.g. the post-conditions) are specified in text instead of machine parsable OCL and UML, then 
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    the contract may be open to mis-interpretation, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the cost of implementing the test may be higher as the tests cannot be autogenerated from the analysis and design model.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>

</section>    