<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns396:section xmlns:ns396="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.documenting.examples.interpharm.architecture.summary.summary">
  <ns397:title xmlns:ns397="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Summary of new architecture</ns397:title>
  <ns398:para xmlns:ns398="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    The core thrust of the new architecture is an overall simplification resulting in
    the following architectural elements:
    <ns399:itemizedlist xmlns:ns399="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns400:listitem xmlns:ns400="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns401:para xmlns:ns401="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        The different software layers were deployed onto the same hardware layer, removing
        the XML-based intra-layer communication.
      </ns401:para></ns400:listitem>
      <ns402:listitem xmlns:ns402="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns403:para xmlns:ns403="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        The local databases and the synchronization process between them was replaced by
        2 synchronized Postgres database servers accessed via a fail-over safe JCA
        database connector provided by JBoss.
      </ns403:para></ns402:listitem>
      <ns404:listitem xmlns:ns404="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns405:para xmlns:ns405="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        The request processing workflows where realized within EJB-3 session beans deployed on
        the JBoss J2EE application server.
      </ns405:para></ns404:listitem>
      <ns406:listitem xmlns:ns406="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns407:para xmlns:ns407="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Persistent objects where realized through EJB-3 entity beans using hibernate as
        light-weight persistence mechanism.
      </ns407:para></ns406:listitem>
      <ns408:listitem xmlns:ns408="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns409:para xmlns:ns409="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Integration to the medical aid administrators was done using JCA adapters. This allows
        for good responsibility allocation and enables the application server to optimize
        the connection pool.
        <ns410:note xmlns:ns410="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns411:para xmlns:ns411="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          The idea behind application servers is that they should manage  all resources
          including CPU resources (threads), memory resources (object pools) and connection
          resources.
        </ns411:para></ns410:note>
      </ns409:para></ns408:listitem>
    </ns399:itemizedlist>
  </ns398:para>
  <ns412:para xmlns:ns412="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    The overall simplification should improve maintainability and reliability. Furthermore, the
    architecture is based on standard technologies, using standard, proven open source solutions.
    We expect that it should be easier to get new developers up to speed within the standard J2EE based
    architecture than what it would have been in the considerably more complex home-grown
    architecture and tools.
  </ns412:para>
  
  <ns413:note xmlns:ns413="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns414:para xmlns:ns414="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Even though the architecture was completely changed and even though some of the
    realization technologies were changed (using an application server and removing internal XML based
    communication and persistence), the design realizing the use cases was not touched. The
    internal objects were the same, the responsibilities they addressed and the algorithms they
    used to realize the functional requirements remained unchanged throughout the project.
  </ns414:para></ns413:note>
</ns396:section>