<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         version="5.0"
         xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2ee.ejb.ejb3.enterpriseBeans.entityBeans.defining.embeddableClasses">
  <title>Embeddable classes</title>
  <para>
    Entity beans may have as components finer grained objects which are
    persisted, not as separate entity beans, but as persisted fields within the
    owner entity. As such embedded objects have no persistent identity. Their
    identity is the role in the context of the owner entity.
    
    <note>
         <para>
      Embedded classes are only used for composition relationships between
      classes, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>, no other object may obtain a reference to
      an embedded object.
    </para>
      </note>
  </para>
  
  <section>
      <title>Defining an embeddable class</title>
      <para>
      An class which is meant to be embeddable within entity beans must be
      annotated as such using the <literal>@Embeddable</literal> annotation.
      Furthermore, it must be serializable:
      <programlisting language="Java">
<xi:include parse="text"
                        href="../../../examples/friends/src/common/za/co/solms/ejb3/friends/Address.java"/>
         </programlisting>
      </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
      <title>Embedding and embeddable class within an entity bean</title>
      <para>
      To embed an embeddable class within an entity bean one has to
      <orderedlist>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Add it as a field.
        </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>
          Map the attributes for the embedded class to columns within the owner
          entity.
        </para>
            </listitem>
         </orderedlist>
      </para>
  </section>

  <section>
      <title>Providing safe access to embedded components</title>
      <para>
      The getters and setters for embedded classes may only be
      accessed by the application server itself. This is to ensure that clients
      do not get direct access to the embedded object, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>,
      that encapsulation is respected. For this reason these methods have been
      declared <literal>protected</literal>, and may also be declared private if necessary.
      <note>
            <para>
        Even if they are declared <literal>public</literal>, users may not use
        them. Application servers should throw and exception if an attempt is
        made to access the getters and setters for embedded objects externally.
      </para>
         </note>
      </para>
      <para>
      We have added <literal>updateAddress()</literal> and
      <literal>retrieveAddress</literal> which provide the user safe access to
      the embedded object without breaking the ownership required by the
      composition relationship, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> without giving the user a
      handle to the embedded object.
    </para>
  </section>
  
</section>