<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    
    <title role="Distributed Garbage Collection">Distributed Garbage Collection</title>
    
    <para>When passing remote references to objects you have to somehow
        ensure that the object becomes garbage collected if nobody
        is using it anymore.</para>
    
    <para>RMI uses a distributed reference counting algorithm where servers
        keep track of the references they distributed to remotely
        accessible objects. In addition RMI uses a reference leasing
        mechanism where remote references expire if they have not been
        used over an extended period of time. By default this period is
        10 minutes but it can be set by specifying the lease period in
        milliseconds for the <emphasis>java.rmi.dgc.leaseValue</emphasis> system
        property.</para>
    <para>
        If a client tries to use a reference which is no longer valid
        they will receive a <emphasis>java.rmi.ConnectionException</emphasis> and client
        applications should be developed to handle this type of exception.</para>
    
    <para>In addition to this server objects are given the opportunity to
        peform other checking algorithms when the distributed garbage
        collector marks a remotely accessible object as unreferenced. To
        this end servers can implement the <emphasis>java.rmi.server.Unreferenced</emphasis>
        interface forcing them to provide an implementation for an
        <emphasis>unreferenced()</emphasis> method.</para>
    
    <para>Below we show a counter which simply writes the fact that it has
        been spotted as unreferenced to the standard output stream.</para>
    
    <section>
        <title>The Counter Implementation</title>
        <para><programlisting>
<xi:include parse="text" href="../../src/countDistGC/CounterImpl.java"/>
</programlisting>
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>
