<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <para>
        Project scope management include those processes required to ensure that the project
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                includes all the work required, and 
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
              no more than the work required to complete the project successfully.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>Project versus product scope</title>
        <para>
            When talking about scope it is important to differentiate between project and product scope.
        </para>
        <para>
            <emphasis>Product scope</emphasis> specifies the scope of the outputs of the project. This may include
            the features and functionality of a resulting product or service or of a collection of project outputs.
        </para>
        <para>
            <emphasis>Project scope</emphasis>, on the other hand, specifies what needs to be done to obtain the
            project deliverables, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> the project outputs with the required features and functionality.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Scope management and estimation</title>
        <para>
            Both, the scope definition and the work break down structure will be inputs for the estimation process.
            Any changes to the scope will typically effect the project estimates.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Elements of project scope management</title>
        <para>
            The core aspects of project scope management, according to the PMBOK, are
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Scope planning</title>
                    <para>
                        This involves creating a scope management plan which documents how the scope will be
                        defined, verified and controlled and how the work breakdown structure will be created.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Scope definition</title>
                    <para>
                        The activity of defining and documenting the project scope.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Creating a work break-down structure</title>
                    <para>
                        This involces identifying the core required work elements and breaking them down into
                        smaller, better defined work components.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Scope verification</title>
                    <para>
                        This involves verifying the scope with the client and formalizing the acceptance of the scope.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Scope control</title>
                    <para>
                        This involves the controlling changes to the project scope.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    