<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>How are the elements in the blackboard architecture realized in software systems?</title>
    <para>
        
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>The blackboard</title>
        <para>
            The blackboard will be some or other form of database to which data objects and messages can be persisted.
            If a relational database is used for the persistence, the blackboard will usually require include an object-relational
            mapper. Alternatively persistence may be done to an object or XML database or even directly to the file
            system.
        </para>
        <para>
            The blackboard implementation must support an API through which information can be added to or
            removed from the blackboard and through which information can be modified. In addition
            the blackboard would typically enable processing units to register for events (either through database
            triggers or through a higher level framework in the persistence layer).
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>The experts</title>
        <para>
            In a software system the experts are the processing units which have the algorithms containing the
            business logic. These processing units typically have very well defined responsibilities which usually
            encapsualted within a contract.
        </para>
        <para>
            The processing units should preferably not contain anything else but the business logic. They would normally be
            deployed in some component container like an EJB, Spring or Web Services container.
        </para>
        <para>
            The processing units can be deployed across machines, as long as they can interface with the blackboard.
            For this they need to understand one of the protocols supported by the blackboard.
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    