<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-06-02 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>View points</title>
    <para>
        A view point is a perspective from which ine looks at / specifies elements of the target architecture. A view point may
        be designed to address particular types of architectural concerns or to provide a suitable view for a particular type of
        stakeholder.
    </para>
    <para>
        IEEE 1471 does not specify any view points itself. This is left open to different architectural methodologies, processes
        and documentation standards. The standard purely specifies that view points should be defined and that the architectural
        views provided with an architectural description need to adhere to these defined view points - i.e. each architectural
        view must correspond to one architectural view point.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Contents of a view point</title>
        <para>
            The IEEE 1471 specifies a number of mandatory and optional elements for the definition of a view point. 
        </para>
        
        <section>
            <title>Mandatory viewpoint elements</title>
            <para>
                The mandatory elements of a view point definition include
                <orderedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        A view point name.        
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        The source, if any, of the view point (e.g. author, citation, ...).
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        The rationale behind the view point.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        The stake holders whose concerns are addressed in a particular view point.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        The actual stake holder concerns to be addressed by the view point.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        The language (modeling language, specification language, ...)
                    </para></listitem>
                </orderedlist>
            </para>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Optional view point elements</title>
            <para>
                In addition to the mandatory elements of a view point, the IEEE 1471 specification also recommends a number of 
                optional elements. These include
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Any <emphasis>consistency and completeness checks</emphasis> associated with the view point. 
                        These checks could be applied solely
                        to the views or, more generally, to the underlying model(s) which may potentially span view points.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Any other evaluation or analysis techniques to be applied to the views for that view point.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        Any heuristics, patterns or guidelines which aid in the synthesis of an associated view or its models.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Library view points</title>
        <para>
            View points are not system or target domain specific. They are more generally associated with a methodology. As such
            view points may be sourced from standard libraries. Alternatively a methodology may define a fixed set of view points 
            for which views are generated when the methodology is followed. 
        </para>
    </section>
</section>