<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Process information</title>
    <para>
        The <literal>/proc</literal> directory contains a directory for each running process (including kernel processes).
        Each process directory contains a range of files with very extensive information about that process including
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>/proc/PID/cmdline</title>
                <para>
                    contains the command through which the process was initiated.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>/proc/PID/cwd</title>
                <para>
                    is a symbolic link to the current working directory of the process.                
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>/proc/PID/environ</title>
                <para>
                    contains the environment variables that affect the process including the values of these variables.   
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>/proc/PID/exe</title>
                <para>
                    is a symlink to the original executable file
                    <note><para>
                        The original executable may no longer exist since a process could still be running after it has been deleted, replaced
                        or moved.
                    </para></note>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>/proc/PID/status</title>
                <para>
                    a file containing basic information about a process including its run state and memory usage.           
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>/proc/PID/fd</title>
                <para>
                    is a directory containing a symbolic link for each open file descriptor.           
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>/proc/PID/fdinfo,</title>
                <para>
                    a directory containing files which describe the position and flags for each open file descriptor.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>/proc/PID/root</title>
                <para>
                    a symbolic link to the root path as seen by the process. For most processes this will be a link to /. 
                    Certain processes like ftp servers often run with a different root directory, i.e. they are 
                    running in a <literal>chroot</literal> jail.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>/proc/PID/task</title>
                <para>
                    a directory containing hard links to any tasks that have been started by this process,
                    i.e. tasks for which this process is the parent process.           
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>/proc/PID/maps</title>
                <para>
                    the memory map showing how the addresses used by the process are mapped 
                    onto RAM and files (e.g. dynamic link libraries).      
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>