<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>    
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">

    <title>Disk Partitioning</title>

    <para>
        Partitioning is a means to divide a single hard drive into many logical drives. A
        partition is a contiguous set of blocks on a drive that are treated as an independent disk.  
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Why use separate partitions?</title>
        <para>
            There are several reasons to introduce partitioning including
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Security</title>
                    <para>
                        The benefit of using separate partitions is that the different partitions are largely protected
                        from one another. For example, the operating system kernel is usually hosted on its own little
                        partitions which is mounted as read only and hence cannot be altered during normal operation.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Risk reduction</title>
                    <para>
                        Furthermore, if the file system on the main work partition gets corrupted, the data of any of the
                        other partitions remains unaffected and fully accessible. Smaller file systems are also easier
                        to backup and recovery.
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Performance</title>
                    <para>
                        Smaller file systems are more efficient than very large file systems. Firthermore, different partitions
                        might use different file systems optimized for things like
                        <itemizedlist>
                            <listitem><para>
                                Fast access to read-only data.
                            </para></listitem>
                            <listitem><para>
                                Access to a large number of continuously changing small files, using a file system with small
                                block sizes.
                            </para></listitem>
                            <listitem><para>
                                Access to huge files like videos and databases using a file system with large block sizes.
                            </para></listitem>
                        </itemizedlist>
                    </para>
                </formalpara></listitem>
                <listitem><formalpara>
                    <title>Hosting different environments for testing</title>
                    <para>
                        One may want to host different operating systems in order to test applications across
                        platforms. These different operating systems would typically be hosted on different
                        partitions.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>The partition table</title>
        <para>
            The Master Boot Record (MBR) of a drive hosted in the first 512 bytes of a drive contains, amongst other
            things, the partition table.
        </para>
        <para>
            The partition table holds the information of
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    Whether the partition is bootable or not.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The start of each partition.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    The length of each partition.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Primary, extended and logical partitions</title>
        <para>
            The Intel based systems provide for only for partitions. These are called the primary partitions. In order to
            make provision for more than 4 partitions, the concept of an extended partition which can itself host
            multiple logical partitions was introduced.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Swap partitions</title>
        <para>
            In order to increase the memory available to the operating system to beyond the physical memory, the concept
            of virtual memory was introduced. Virtaul memory is a logical address space which may be larger than the
            physical memory. As more memory is required, some of the not so intensively used memory areas are swapped
            by the operating system out onto persistent storage, e.g. the hard disk. 
        </para>
        <para>
            A swap partition is space on the hard disk which has been reserved for the operating system to be used as swap/
            paging space.
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Choosing a partitioning scheme</title>
        <para>
            When partitioning a Linux system you will typically create one partiton for the kernel, one for swap space and
            at least one for the root partition. You might want to create a further partition for user data (i.e. the home directory)
            where data will continually change.
        </para>
    </section>
</section>
