<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Architectural risks and trade-offs</title>
    <para>
        When specifying an architecture, one usually needs to trade off quality attributes against each other.
        This section discusses how the trade-off decisions were made and provides an assessment of
        the architectural risks.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Security</title>
        <para>
            Currently the communication between pharmacies and the switch and the switch and medical aid
            administators is transmitted largely with little or no support for confidentiality (encryption) and data
            integrity (hashing). As the communication is ported over to HTTP and/or web services, the
            support for this can be easily added via SSL. 
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Transaction management</title>
        <para>
            Currently the transaction boundaries are compromised by not being able to place the technical
            boundaries on the true business boundaries (in principle, the transaction spans from the
            pharmacy over interpharm and the administrator back to the pharmacy). This means that separate
            use cases for performing inverse transactions to cater for incorrectly committed transactions
            need to be supported.
        </para>
        <para>
            Also, the transaction context is currently not propagated through the JCA connector to the
            administrator system, resulting additional logic to for roll-back requests in the claim switching
            system and the administrator having to provide support for roll back via inverse
            transactions. 
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Fail over safety in the socket connection layer</title>
        <para>
            The socket connection layer has limited fail-over safety. If a machine goes down, then the
            connections to the client are lost and all transactions
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Database synchronization</title>
        <para>
            If a database server falls over, it may not have been able to synchronize all data to the
            second database server yet. This introduces a risk of aborting workflows and duplicate  claims on database server
            failure.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    
</section>  
