<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns256:section xmlns:ns256="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.objectOrientation.introduction.serviceRequestMessages">

  <ns257:title xmlns:ns257="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Service request messages</ns257:title>
  <ns258:para xmlns:ns258="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    We request services from an object by sending a message to it.
    For example, stepping on the accelerator sends an 
    <ns259:emphasis xmlns:ns259="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">accelerate</ns259:emphasis> message to the car.
  </ns258:para>
  <ns260:para xmlns:ns260="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Within the context of individual service requests, the object requesting
    the service is called the <ns261:emphasis xmlns:ns261="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">client</ns261:emphasis> and the object 
    providing the service is called the <ns262:emphasis xmlns:ns262="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">service provider</ns262:emphasis>
    or <ns263:emphasis xmlns:ns263="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">server</ns263:emphasis>. Clients can request a service from a
    service provider via different types of messages. One typically defines
    the following types of messages:
    <ns264:itemizedlist xmlns:ns264="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns265:listitem xmlns:ns265="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns266:para xmlns:ns266="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">synchronous</ns266:para></ns265:listitem>
      <ns267:listitem xmlns:ns267="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns268:para xmlns:ns268="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">asynchronous</ns268:para></ns267:listitem>
      <ns269:listitem xmlns:ns269="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns270:para xmlns:ns270="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">timeout</ns270:para></ns269:listitem>
    </ns264:itemizedlist>
  </ns260:para>
  <ns271:section xmlns:ns271="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns272:title xmlns:ns272="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Synchronous messages</ns272:title>
    <ns273:para xmlns:ns273="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      A synchronous message is one where the client waits for a response before
      continuing with its workflow. For example, when you request a telephone
      connection by dialing a telephone number, you wait until you received
      a response before starting to talk.
    </ns273:para>
  </ns271:section>
  <ns274:section xmlns:ns274="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns275:title xmlns:ns275="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Asynchronous messages</ns275:title>
    <ns276:para xmlns:ns276="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      An asynchronous message are messages which are sent by clients without them
      waiting for a response. The client sends the message and continues with 
      his/her/its workflow directly. The response would be a separate message in
      the context of a <ns277:emphasis xmlns:ns277="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">call-back</ns277:emphasis>.
    </ns276:para>
  </ns274:section>
  <ns278:section xmlns:ns278="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns279:title xmlns:ns279="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Timeout messages</ns279:title>
    <ns280:para xmlns:ns280="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Timeout messages are really synchronous messages where the client has finite 
      patience, <ns281:abbrev xmlns:ns281="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns281:abbrev> the client does not wait indefinetily for a 
      response and <ns282:emphasis xmlns:ns282="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">if a response is not obtained within the timeout period, 
      the message is abandoned from the clients perspective</ns282:emphasis>. 
    </ns280:para>
    <ns283:para xmlns:ns283="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Note that the message is abandoned from the client's perspective. The service 
      provider may still continue to try and provide the requested service.
    </ns283:para>
  </ns278:section>
</ns256:section>