<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.qualityAttributes.modifiability.lateBinding" xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">

  <title>Late binding</title>
  <para>
    Thus far the modifiability tactics enable developers to apply system changes more
    cost efficiently. The changes were however applied at compile time. Late binding
    tactic enables one to apply changes at either deploy or run time.
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>Benefits of late binding</title>
    <para>
      Architectures which defer binding decisions to either deploy or run time are
      usually considerably more flexible. They facilitate
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>
          deployers to  deploy customized solutions without requiring developers to make system
          changes,
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          and even clients to modify a system at run-time without bringing the system down.  
        </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Tactics used to realize late binding</title>
    <para>
      Below we provide a few concrete tactics used to realize late binding strategies.      
    </para>
    
    <section>
      <title>Runtime registration</title>
      <para>
        This strategy facilitates registration and loading of new components at run-time. 
        These components should typically realize a <emphasis>contract</emphasis>.
        This can be achieved by registering service providers with 
        <itemizedlist>
          <listitem><para>
           naming and/or trader services,  
          </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            message queues,  
          </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            messaging bus,  
          </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            component containers like EJB containers or servlet/JSP or ASP containers.  
          </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
      </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Customized deployment via configuration files</title>
      <para>
        This tactic supports the selection of components or entire frameworks (like
        presentation layer frameworks) at deploy-time. It is often used together
        with the <emphasis>abstract factory</emphasis> pattern.
      </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
      <title>Service provider lookup via naming and trader services</title>
      <para>
        Service providers may register themselves with naming or trader services
        Potential clients look up service providers at run-time, obtaining a message
        path to the service provider (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> a CORBA reference or
        a URL to a web service). This message path is then used to issue service 
        requests.
      </para>
      <para>
        Naming services enables potential clients to look up service providers from a name. 
        They are conceptually similar to a normal telephone book containing a 
        name to telephone number (message path) mapping.       
      </para>
      <para>
        Trader services, on the other hand enable clients to look up service providers via
        a hierarchical classification of services, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> via the service
        they require.
      </para>
      <para>
        Using a naming or trader service facilitates late binding. The concrete service provider
        bound to may be replaced at run-time. In middleware frameworks (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev>
        CORBA) the reference itself is location transparent and the concrete realization of a service
        provider may be altered significantly (location, implementation technologies like
        programming language, platform, ...).
      </para>
    </section>
    
  </section>
  
</section>