<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.qualityAttributes.modifiability.typesOfChanges" xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">

  <title>Types of changes</title>
  <para>
    Virtually any aspect of a system may require change and one quality measure of an
    architecture is then to estimate the cost associated with such changes.
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>Requirements for new use cases</title>
    <para>
      A system implemented in an architecture should be able to cost effectively support
      the addition of new functionality which realizes new use cases.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Requirement changes to existing use cases</title>
    <para>
      The requirements for use cases supported by an existing architecture may change. This
      may involve changes in the <emphasis>preconditions</emphasis> and/or 
      <emphasis>postconditions</emphasis> of a service. 
    </para>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Workflow changes</title>
    <para>
      This may require
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>adding or removing workflow steps,</para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>replacement of workflow steps, or</para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>changes to workflow steps.</para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Change in service provider</title>
    <para>
      A system often delegates certain responsibilities to external service providers. At
      times one wants to or has to change from one service provider to another.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Change in platform</title>
    <para>
      This includes changes in
      <itemizedlist>
        <listitem><para>the underlying hardware platform,</para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>the operating system used,</para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          the middle ware technology used, or  
        </para></listitem>
        <listitem><para>
          the component container like the servlet or EJB container
          or even the Java run-time environment itself.
        </para></listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Usability changes</title>
    <para>
      Usability changes include changes in the user work flows, presentation layer changes
      (including language changes),
      and changes to the performance requirements.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  
  <section>
    <title>Changes to system capacity</title>
    <para>
      A system is usually built for specified average and peak loads. Over time a system may
      need to carry more load. Examples include the number of concurrent users, the number
      of transactions to be processed and the amount of data to be fed.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  
</section>