<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section
    xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" version="5.0">
    <title>
        What is a Services-Oriented Enterprise (SOE)?
        <indexterm>
            <primary>Services Oriented Enterprise</primary>
            <secondary>definition of</secondary>
        </indexterm>
    </title>
    <para>
        A Services Oriented Enterprise (SOE) is an organization which is globally integrated and 
        whose core focus is on service delivery and effectively managing the processes around service delivery.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        Just because an organization operates within the services sector does not mean that it is a services-oriented
        <indexterm><primary>services</primary><secondary>sector</secondary></indexterm>
        enterprise. A SOE should satisfy a number of requirements:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                Any activity done within any organizational unit at any level of granularity is part of realizing
                a service. Higher level, more coarse grained services are assembled from lower level, more fine
                grained services.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Business processes are assembled from services available to the organization, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>
                <indexterm><primary>business process</primary></indexterm>
                services provided by internal business units and systems as well as services provided by external
                service providers.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                There are services contract for the services sourced from internal business units as well as for those
                <indexterm><primary>contract</primary><secondary>services</secondary></indexterm>
                <indexterm><primary>services contract</primary>
                    <see><indexterm><primary>services</primary><secondary>contract</secondary></indexterm></see>
                </indexterm>
                sourced from external service providers.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                For any required service, the organization can change the
                preferred service provider with another service provider which realizes the same services contract. Changing
                from one service provider to another does not require any changes to the business processes for which
                these services are required.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                The organization has mechanisms in place for effective service governance.
                <indexterm><primary>service</primary><secondary>governance</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                A SOE manages an infrastructure through which service requests are routed to the service providers chosen
                to realize the required services.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                Business processes are defined in a technology-neutral manner, and are managed effectively by business (and not by
                technology).
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem>    
                <para>
                    In a SOE, structure is driven from processes and continuously optimized in the context of business process optimization.
                    The sole purpose of any structural elements is that of supporting business processes which generate value for the
                    stake holders of the organization.
              </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                A SOE typically aims for real-time service discovery and dynamic service provider selection.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
        
    </para>
    
    
    <section>
        <title>SOE and SOA</title>
        <para>
            A Services-Oriented Enterprise (SOE) need not necessarily be built around 
            a Services Oriented Systems Architecture (SOA). However, the process of aligning the <emphasis>systems
            architecture</emphasis> with the <emphasis>organizational architecture</emphasis> will typically 
            lead to a SOE choosing an SOA as core element of the systems architecture.
        </para>
        <para>
            An SOA will enable the SOE to automate a wide range of responsibilities and tasks including
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    business process execution,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    static and dynamic service provider discovery and selection,
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    integration with service providers, service request routing and delivery, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    service governance.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>    