<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns504:section xmlns:ns504="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2ee.ejb.clustering.configuration.httpSessionReplication">
 <ns505:title xmlns:ns505="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">HTTP session replication</ns505:title>
  <ns506:para xmlns:ns506="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns507:emphasis xmlns:ns507="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JBoss 3</ns507:emphasis>
      supports HTTP session replication with both, <ns508:emphasis xmlns:ns508="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Jetty</ns508:emphasis>
      and <ns509:emphasis xmlns:ns509="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Tomcat</ns509:emphasis> web containers. In this section we discuss
      <ns510:itemizedlist xmlns:ns510="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns511:listitem xmlns:ns511="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns512:para xmlns:ns512="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
           aspects of load balancing on the presentation layer,
        </ns512:para></ns511:listitem>
        <ns513:listitem xmlns:ns513="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns514:para xmlns:ns514="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
           what is and why use HTTP session replication, and
        </ns514:para></ns513:listitem>
        <ns515:listitem xmlns:ns515="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns516:para xmlns:ns516="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          how to setup JBoss with Tomcat/Jetty to support HTTP
          session replication.
        </ns516:para></ns515:listitem>
      </ns510:itemizedlist>
  </ns506:para>
  
  <ns517:section xmlns:ns517="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns518:title xmlns:ns518="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Load balancing in the presentation layer</ns518:title>
    <ns519:para xmlns:ns519="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      While session state replication is handled by JBoss,
      load-balancing of incoming HTTP requests itself is
      outside the domain of JBoss. For this one typically uses
      either
      <ns520:itemizedlist xmlns:ns520="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns521:listitem xmlns:ns521="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns522:para xmlns:ns522="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          specialized hardware switches and routers (<ns523:abbrev xmlns:ns523="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">e.g.</ns523:abbrev>
          <ns524:emphasis xmlns:ns524="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Cisco load balancer</ns524:emphasis>) or
        </ns522:para></ns521:listitem>
        <ns525:listitem xmlns:ns525="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns526:para xmlns:ns526="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          dedicated load-balancing software like <ns527:emphasis xmlns:ns527="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Apache
          mod_jk</ns527:emphasis>.
        </ns526:para></ns525:listitem>
      </ns520:itemizedlist>
    </ns519:para>  
  </ns517:section>
  
  <ns528:section xmlns:ns528="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns529:title xmlns:ns529="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Hardware load balancers</ns529:title>
    <ns530:para xmlns:ns530="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      A load-balancing switch/router looks to the network like a
      single IP address, but routes HTTP traffic to any HTTP server
      plugged into it.
    </ns530:para>
    
    <ns531:section xmlns:ns531="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns532:title xmlns:ns532="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Sticky sessions</ns532:title>
      <ns533:para xmlns:ns533="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        One problem with implementing load balancing naively is that
        consecutive TTP requests may be routed to different servers
        and hence there session information would not persist accross
        HTTP requests.
      </ns533:para>
      <ns534:para xmlns:ns534="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        To this end, both, load-balancing routers/switches and software
        solutions for HTTP request load balancing support the concept
        of <ns535:emphasis xmlns:ns535="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">sticky sessions</ns535:emphasis>.
      </ns534:para>
      <ns536:para xmlns:ns536="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        In this case the load balancer (either software or hardware)
        will route all requests from a specific session to the same
        node.
      </ns536:para>
      <ns537:para xmlns:ns537="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        This results in load-balancing with session information being
        maintained accross HTTP requests and, in many cases, this
        solution may be sufficient.
      </ns537:para>
      <ns538:para xmlns:ns538="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Of course, if the node hosting the client session fails, the
        session information is lost and the client will have to start
        from the beginning again. While this may be acceptable in many
        realistic environments, there are some business environments
        which require <ns539:emphasis xmlns:ns539="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">fail-over safety</ns539:emphasis> at the presentation layer,
        <ns540:abbrev xmlns:ns540="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns540:abbrev> that another node can take over that session with all its
        session information and the client continues without even
        knowing that he/she is now being served by another node.
      </ns538:para>
    </ns531:section>
  </ns528:section>  
  <ns541:section xmlns:ns541="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns542:title xmlns:ns542="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Fail-Over safety via HTTP session replication?</ns542:title>
    <ns543:para xmlns:ns543="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      So, while load-balancing with sticky session provide load
      balancing with the session state maintained accross service
      requests, they do not provide fail-over safety. If the node
      to which the sticky session is bound, the client has to
      reconnect and looses any session information which he had.
    </ns543:para>
    <ns544:para xmlns:ns544="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      To support fail-over safety one requires session replication.
      While load-balancing of the incoming HTTP requests is not
      handled by <ns545:emphasis xmlns:ns545="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JBoss</ns545:emphasis>, session replication is. It is supported for
      both, the default web container, <ns546:emphasis xmlns:ns546="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Jetty</ns546:emphasis>, and 
      <ns547:emphasis xmlns:ns547="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Tomcat</ns547:emphasis>.
    </ns544:para>
  </ns541:section>
  
  <ns548:section xmlns:ns548="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns549:title xmlns:ns549="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">What is session replication?</ns549:title>
    <ns550:para xmlns:ns550="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Session replication implies that the session state of the node
      currently hosting the session is replicated accross other nodes
      in the cluster.
    </ns550:para>
    <ns551:para xmlns:ns551="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      When one node fails the client is redirected to another node in
      the cluster which has a copy of the session and hence no
      information is lost.
    </ns551:para>
  </ns548:section>  

  <ns552:section xmlns:ns552="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns553:title xmlns:ns553="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Session replication algorithms</ns553:title>
    <ns554:para xmlns:ns554="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The session replication algorithm may differ significantly from
      application server to application server.
    </ns554:para>
    
    <ns555:section xmlns:ns555="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns556:title xmlns:ns556="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Single node replication</ns556:title>
      <ns557:para xmlns:ns557="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        In some application servers (<ns558:abbrev xmlns:ns558="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">e.g.</ns558:abbrev> BEA WebLogic) the node to
        which the client is currently connected hosts a primary session.
        This session is replicated on to one other node which hosts
        the secondary session.
      </ns557:para>
      <ns559:para xmlns:ns559="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          If the node hosting the primary session fails, the client is
          redirected to the node hosting the secondary session. That session
          becomes the primary session and another secondary session is
          spawned on another node.
      </ns559:para>
    </ns555:section>
    
    <ns560:section xmlns:ns560="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns561:title xmlns:ns561="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Cluster/partition-wide session replication</ns561:title>
     <ns562:para xmlns:ns562="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        In the case of <ns563:emphasis xmlns:ns563="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JBoss</ns563:emphasis> the cluster is not configured manually.
        It is automatically configured by different nodes publishing
        their existence and partition allocation to other nodes in
        the cluster.
     </ns562:para>
     <ns564:para xmlns:ns564="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      In this scenario a session is replicated across all nodes
      in the partition, or, if sub-partition (if sub-partitioning
      is used). This may incur significant communication
      overheads and hence one it advised not to make individual
      partitions/sub-partitions too large.
     </ns564:para>
   </ns560:section>  
  </ns552:section>
  
  <ns565:section xmlns:ns565="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns566:title xmlns:ns566="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Configuring web containers for session replication</ns566:title>
    <ns567:para xmlns:ns567="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      When using <ns568:emphasis xmlns:ns568="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JBoss</ns568:emphasis> for session replication, the servlet container
      does not use any of its own replication code and relies solely
      on the session replication service deployed in <ns569:emphasis xmlns:ns569="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JBoss</ns569:emphasis>.
    </ns567:para>
    
    <ns570:section xmlns:ns570="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns571:title xmlns:ns571="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Deploying the HTTP session replication service</ns571:title>
      <ns572:para xmlns:ns572="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns573:emphasis xmlns:ns573="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">JBoss</ns573:emphasis>'s HTTP session replication service is contained in the jar file,
        <ns574:literal xmlns:ns574="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">jbossha-hhtpsession.sar</ns574:literal>. To deploy it one simply copies it into
        the appropriate deploy directory. This is independent of whether one
        uses <ns575:emphasis xmlns:ns575="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Tomcat</ns575:emphasis> or <ns576:emphasis xmlns:ns576="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Jetty</ns576:emphasis>.
      </ns572:para>
    </ns570:section>
    
    <ns577:section xmlns:ns577="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns578:title xmlns:ns578="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Declaring your servlet distributable</ns578:title>
      <ns579:para xmlns:ns579="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        You will have to declare your servlet <ns580:emphasis xmlns:ns580="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">distributable</ns580:emphasis> in your
        <ns581:literal xmlns:ns581="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">WEB-INF/web.xml</ns581:literal> deployment descriptor for your web application.
        <ns582:emphasis xmlns:ns582="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Distributable</ns582:emphasis> is a subelement of the 
        <ns583:emphasis xmlns:ns583="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">web-app</ns583:emphasis> element following the 
        <ns584:emphasis xmlns:ns584="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">description</ns584:emphasis> element of the <ns585:emphasis xmlns:ns585="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">web-app</ns585:emphasis>.
      <ns586:programlisting xmlns:ns586="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">

&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?&gt;
&lt;!DOCTYPE web-app PUBLIC "-//Sun Microsystems, Inc.//DTD Web Application 2.3//EN" "http://java.sun.com/dtd/web-app_2_3.dtd"&gt;
&lt;web-app&gt;
  &lt;distributable&gt;true&lt;/distributable&gt;
  &lt;!-- Servlets --&gt;
  &lt;servlet&gt;
    &lt;servlet-name&gt;LoanCalculatorServlet&lt;/servlet-name&gt;
    &lt;servlet-class&gt;za.co.SolmsTraining.finance.calculators.LoanCalculatorServlet&lt;/servlet-class&gt;
  &lt;/servlet&gt;
  &lt;servlet-mapping&gt;
    &lt;servlet-name&gt;LoanCalculatorServlet&lt;/servlet-name&gt;
    &lt;url-pattern&gt;/LoanCalculatorServlet&lt;/url-pattern&gt;
  &lt;/servlet-mapping&gt;
  &lt;welcome-file-list&gt;
    &lt;welcome-file&gt;index.html&lt;/welcome-file&gt;
  &lt;/welcome-file-list&gt;
  &lt;!-- EJB References (java:comp/env/ejb) --&gt;
  &lt;ejb-ref&gt;
    &lt;ejb-ref-name&gt;ejb/LoanCalculator&lt;/ejb-ref-name&gt;
    &lt;ejb-ref-type&gt;Session&lt;/ejb-ref-type&gt;
    &lt;home&gt;za.co.SolmsTraining.finance.calculators.LoanCalculatorHome&lt;/home&gt;
    &lt;remote&gt;za.co.SolmsTraining.finance.calculators.LoanCalculator&lt;/remote&gt;
  &lt;/ejb-ref&gt;
&lt;/web-app&gt;
      
      </ns586:programlisting>
      </ns579:para>
      <ns587:para xmlns:ns587="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          In addition to this one may want to set some configuration parameters
          for the web container you are using. These configuration parameters
          are different for Jetty and Tomcat.
      </ns587:para>
    </ns577:section>
    
    <ns588:section xmlns:ns588="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns589:title xmlns:ns589="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Selecting replication events for Tomcat</ns589:title>
      <ns590:para xmlns:ns590="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        A replication is like taking a snap-shot. By default, <ns591:emphasis xmlns:ns591="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Tomcat</ns591:emphasis>
        is configured to use <ns592:emphasis xmlns:ns592="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">instant</ns592:emphasis> snap-shotting. You may want to
        change this to improve the performance of the replication
        algorithm. The snap-shot modes available in <ns593:emphasis xmlns:ns593="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Tomcat</ns593:emphasis> are:
        <ns594:itemizedlist xmlns:ns594="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          <ns595:listitem xmlns:ns595="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns596:formalpara xmlns:ns596="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            <ns597:title xmlns:ns597="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">instant</ns597:title>
            <ns598:para xmlns:ns598="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              The session is replicated after each HTTP request.
            </ns598:para>
          </ns596:formalpara></ns595:listitem>
          <ns599:listitem xmlns:ns599="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns600:formalpara xmlns:ns600="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            <ns601:title xmlns:ns601="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">[interval:</ns601:title>
            <ns602:para xmlns:ns602="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              The session changes are collected and replicated
              in one block in the chosen interval period.
            </ns602:para>
          </ns600:formalpara></ns599:listitem>
        </ns594:itemizedlist>
      </ns590:para>
      <ns603:para xmlns:ns603="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        For each of these modes you can specify another attribute, <ns604:literal xmlns:ns604="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">economy</ns604:literal>
        which sets that only calls to <ns605:literal xmlns:ns605="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">HTTPSession.setAttribute</ns605:literal> are
        interpreted as session changes.
      </ns603:para>  
      <ns606:para xmlns:ns606="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        So, in the <ns607:literal xmlns:ns607="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">tomcat4-service.xml</ns607:literal> found in the 
        <ns608:emphasis xmlns:ns608="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">deploy</ns608:emphasis>
        directory you can add/modify the snap-shot attributes. For example,
        <ns609:programlisting xmlns:ns609="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">

        &lt;mbean code="org.jboss.web.catalina.EmbeddedCatalinaServiceSX"
          name="jboss.web:service=EmbeddedCatalinaSX"&gt;
          &lt;attribute name="CatalinaHome"&gt;&amp;catalina.home&lt;/attribute&gt;
          &lt;attribute name="SnapShotMode"&gt;interval&lt;/attribute&gt;
          &lt;attribute name="SnapShotInterval"&gt;3000&lt;/attribute&gt;
          &lt;attribute name="EconomicSnapshotting"&gt;true&lt;/attribute&gt;
          ...
        &lt;/mbean&gt;
        
        </ns609:programlisting>
      </ns606:para>
    </ns588:section>
    
    <ns610:section xmlns:ns610="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns611:title xmlns:ns611="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Jetty-specific configuration</ns611:title>
      <ns612:para xmlns:ns612="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        In addition to the web-container neutral configuration, you may want to
        modify the default session replication strategy for Jetty. To this
        end you may want to update the file
        <ns613:literal xmlns:ns613="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">deploy/jbossweb.sar/META-INF/jboss-service.xml</ns613:literal>. The relevant
        section is shown below
        <ns614:programlisting xmlns:ns614="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">

      &lt;Set name="DistributableSessionManagerPrototype"&gt;
       &lt;New class="org.mortbay.j2ee.session.Manager"&gt;
        &lt;Set name="scavengerPeriod"&gt;600&lt;/Set&gt;
        &lt;Set name="interceptorStack"&gt;
         &lt;Array type="org.mortbay.j2ee.session.StateInterceptor"&gt;
          &lt;Item&gt;&lt;New class="org.mortbay.j2ee.session.ValidatingInterceptor"/&gt;&lt;/Item&gt;
          &lt;Item&gt;&lt;New class="org.mortbay.j2ee.session.TypeCheckingInterceptor"/&gt;&lt;/Item&gt;
          &lt;Item&gt;&lt;New class="org.mortbay.j2ee.session.BindingInterceptor"/&gt;&lt;/Item&gt;
          &lt;Item&gt;&lt;New class="org.mortbay.j2ee.session.PublishingInterceptor"/&gt;&lt;/Item&gt;
          &lt;Item&gt;&lt;New class="org.mortbay.j2ee.session.SubscribingInterceptor"/&gt;&lt;/Item&gt;
          &lt;Item&gt;&lt;New class="org.mortbay.j2ee.session.SynchronizingInterceptor"/&gt;&lt;/Item&gt;
         &lt;/Array&gt;
        &lt;/Set&gt;
       &lt;/New&gt;
      &lt;/Set&gt;

      &lt;!-- For testing the Distributable SessionManager with e.g. Watchdog --&gt;
      &lt;!--
      &lt;Set name="forceDistributable"&gt;true&lt;/Set&gt;
      --&gt;

      &lt;/Configure&gt;
     &lt;/attribute&gt;
        
        </ns614:programlisting>
      </ns612:para>
    </ns610:section>
    </ns565:section>
    
    <ns615:section xmlns:ns615="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns616:title xmlns:ns616="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Some architectural solutions</ns616:title>
      <ns617:para xmlns:ns617="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        In this section we discuss a number of possible architectural
        solutions trying to address load-balancing and fail-over safety
        in an efficient way.
      </ns617:para>
      
      <ns618:section xmlns:ns618="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns619:title xmlns:ns619="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Load-balancing across clusters</ns619:title>
        <ns620:para xmlns:ns620="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          One solution which is scales well while providing fail-over safety
          is to have
          <ns621:itemizedlist xmlns:ns621="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            <ns622:listitem xmlns:ns622="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns623:para xmlns:ns623="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              <ns624:emphasis xmlns:ns624="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">multiple clusters</ns624:emphasis>, each cluster having only a few nodes
              (say less than 6),
            </ns623:para></ns622:listitem>
            <ns625:listitem xmlns:ns625="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns626:para xmlns:ns626="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              assign a hardware or software load balancer to each cluster and
            </ns626:para></ns625:listitem>
            <ns627:listitem xmlns:ns627="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns628:para xmlns:ns628="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              have an additional load balancer which sprays HTTP requests
              across the load balancers for the individual clusters.
            </ns628:para></ns627:listitem>
          </ns621:itemizedlist>
        </ns620:para>
        <ns629:para xmlns:ns629="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          This ensures that
          <ns630:itemizedlist xmlns:ns630="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            <ns631:listitem xmlns:ns631="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns632:para xmlns:ns632="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              state replication is limited to replicate over only relatively
              few nodes, and
            </ns632:para></ns631:listitem>
            <ns633:listitem xmlns:ns633="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns634:para xmlns:ns634="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              that the system can scale efficiently to a very large number
              of machines.
            </ns634:para></ns633:listitem>
          </ns630:itemizedlist>
        </ns629:para>
      </ns618:section>
    </ns615:section>
</ns504:section>