<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0b5/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns2176:section xmlns:ns2176="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.platforms.linux.installing.installing">

<ns2177:title xmlns:ns2177="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Installing Linux</ns2177:title>
<ns2178:para xmlns:ns2178="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
</ns2178:para>
	<ns2179:section xmlns:ns2179="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2180:title xmlns:ns2180="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Guidelines</ns2180:title>
		<ns2181:para xmlns:ns2181="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		As a rule of thumb it is good practice to install all packages available on the distribution. This prevents later on having to install additional packages and their respective dependencies. This rule should however only be applied to client / workstation installations. For servers, only the packages required for the server purpose to be addressed, are to be installed. This also prevents the introduction of security holes in unnecessary packages.
		</ns2181:para>
	</ns2179:section>
	
	<ns2182:section xmlns:ns2182="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2183:title xmlns:ns2183="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Partitioning and boot loaders</ns2183:title>
		<ns2184:para xmlns:ns2184="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			Going with the default option to autopartition your drive, a /boot partition, a / [root] partition as well as a swap partition [virtual memory] are created. It could be useful to also create a separate partition for /home [Users private space] and /usr [installed application] or /var [logs] as well. 
		</ns2184:para>
	</ns2182:section>

	<ns2185:section xmlns:ns2185="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2186:title xmlns:ns2186="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Creating other users</ns2186:title>
		<ns2187:para xmlns:ns2187="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		You should never use the root user. (...except if you have to). The root user has special privileges which can pose a danger even to experienced users. File deletion is handled differently for the root user in that the assumtion is made that the user is certain and the request is processed without further prompts. For this reason it is good practice to create another user used for day to day tasks. This is also the reason for a section within the installation process catering for the creation of another user.
		</ns2187:para>
	</ns2185:section>

	<ns2188:section xmlns:ns2188="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"> 
		<ns2189:title xmlns:ns2189="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Selecting Packages</ns2189:title>
		<ns2190:para xmlns:ns2190="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			As already previously mentioned, for client / workstation installation it is recommended to install all available packages if possible. At least for a linux novice user, until a basic understanding of the various available packages has been developed.  	
		</ns2190:para>
	</ns2188:section>

	<ns2191:section xmlns:ns2191="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2192:title xmlns:ns2192="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Hardware </ns2192:title>
		<ns2193:para xmlns:ns2193="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		In general most popular hardware is supported. Distributions like <ns2194:emphasis xmlns:ns2194="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">Redhat</ns2194:emphasis>	offer a list of compatible hardware devices online.
		</ns2193:para>
		<!--section>
			<title>Graphics Cards</title>
			<para>
			</para>
		</section>
		<section>
			<title>Sound Cards</title>
			<para>
			</para>
		</section-->
	</ns2191:section>

	<ns2195:section xmlns:ns2195="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2196:title xmlns:ns2196="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Choosing a Windows Manager</ns2196:title>
		<ns2197:para xmlns:ns2197="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		Choosing a window manager is very much a matter of taste. Both KDE and Gnome offer a user-friendly interface with many wizards to configure the environment. Window Maker on the other hand provides a simpler more lightweight interface. For a novice user on a fair sized workstation either Gnome or KDE are recommended as they provide online help and other features easing the introduction to linux.
		</ns2197:para>
		<!--section>
			<title>KDE</title>
			<para>
			</para>
		</section>	
		<section>
			<title>Gnome</title>
			<para>
			</para>
		</section>	
		<section>
			<title>WindowMaker</title>
			<para>
			</para>
		</section>	
		<section>
			<title>Other Windows Manager</title>
			<para>
			 	Other Window Managers are available although not widely in use. 
			</para>
		</section-->	
	</ns2195:section>	
	
	<ns2198:section xmlns:ns2198="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2199:title xmlns:ns2199="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Installing from CDROM or 3 1/5" disk</ns2199:title>
		<ns2200:para xmlns:ns2200="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			Most modern linux distributions are available as downloadable ISO images. Once these images are burnt onto a CD, linux can be installed by booting off the CD. Should the CD-drive not support booting off CDROM disks, many distributions offer a boot disk image on the CD which can be used to create a boot stiffy disk. This boot stiffy disk can be used to boot off and load the kernel. Once the appropriate drivers have been loaded the installation process continues off the cdrom.
		</ns2200:para>
	</ns2198:section>	
	<ns2201:section xmlns:ns2201="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2202:title xmlns:ns2202="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Installing from network</ns2202:title>
		<ns2203:para xmlns:ns2203="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			In many cases it is convenient to install workstations off a server hosted on the same network. This removes the need of cd or cdrom drives and is supported by most popular network cards. 			
		</ns2203:para>
		<ns2204:section xmlns:ns2204="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2205:title xmlns:ns2205="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Configuring the server</ns2205:title>
			<ns2206:para xmlns:ns2206="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				The content of all cdroms is copied to the same directory on the server which is subsequently shared either via NFS, FTP or HTTP. This requires about 3 Gb of free diskspace on the server and dependent on the number of clients to be installed concurrently an appropriate network interface.
			</ns2206:para>
		</ns2204:section>	
		<ns2207:section xmlns:ns2207="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2208:title xmlns:ns2208="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Installing the client</ns2208:title>
			<ns2209:para xmlns:ns2209="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				On the first cdrom in the distribution collection one or more image files have to be copied onto a stiffy disk via the dd command. The clients are booted off the disks, given an IP address, either manually or via DHCP, and a reference to the share on the server, share type (NFS, FTP, HTTP).
			</ns2209:para>
			<ns2210:programlisting xmlns:ns2210="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
dd -if [imagefile] -of /dev/fd0 -b 1440				
			</ns2210:programlisting>
			<ns2211:note xmlns:ns2211="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2212:para xmlns:ns2212="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			For Redhat 9 the bootimage as well as the network driver disk have to be cut onto disks.
			</ns2212:para>
			</ns2211:note>
		</ns2207:section>	
	</ns2201:section>	
	<ns2213:section xmlns:ns2213="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2214:title xmlns:ns2214="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Installing via source distribution</ns2214:title>
		<ns2215:para xmlns:ns2215="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			Many distributions offer source packages which are downloaded from the internet and compiled on the target workstation. Amongst these distributions are debian and gentoo to mention two rather more popular ones. Updates to these distributions are also available via download from the internet.
		</ns2215:para>
	</ns2213:section>	
	<ns2216:section xmlns:ns2216="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2217:title xmlns:ns2217="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Installing Redhat 9.0 - A Step by Step guide</ns2217:title>
		<ns2218:formalpara xmlns:ns2218="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2219:title xmlns:ns2219="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Booting</ns2219:title>
			<ns2220:para xmlns:ns2220="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				Either boot off CDRom or 3 1/5" disk.
			</ns2220:para>
		</ns2218:formalpara>	
		<ns2221:formalpara xmlns:ns2221="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2222:title xmlns:ns2222="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Selecting Language</ns2222:title>
			<ns2223:para xmlns:ns2223="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				<ns2224:itemizedlist xmlns:ns2224="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
					<ns2225:listitem xmlns:ns2225="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
						<ns2226:para xmlns:ns2226="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
						During installation process select <ns2227:emphasis xmlns:ns2227="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">English</ns2227:emphasis>
						</ns2226:para>
					</ns2225:listitem>
					<ns2228:listitem xmlns:ns2228="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
						<ns2229:para xmlns:ns2229="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
						Keyboard layout - typically either US or UK.
						</ns2229:para>
					</ns2228:listitem>
				</ns2224:itemizedlist>
			</ns2223:para>
		</ns2221:formalpara>	
		<ns2230:formalpara xmlns:ns2230="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2231:title xmlns:ns2231="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Selecting Installation options</ns2231:title>
			<ns2232:para xmlns:ns2232="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2233:itemizedlist xmlns:ns2233="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				<ns2234:listitem xmlns:ns2234="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
					<ns2235:para xmlns:ns2235="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
					Local CDROM - The distribution is mounted in the CDRom drive.
					</ns2235:para>
				</ns2234:listitem>
				<ns2236:listitem xmlns:ns2236="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
					<ns2237:para xmlns:ns2237="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
					Hard drive - The distribution has already been copied onto a partition on the target workstation.
					</ns2237:para>
				</ns2236:listitem>
				<ns2238:listitem xmlns:ns2238="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
					<ns2239:para xmlns:ns2239="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				  NFS - Installing over the network of a NFS server.
					</ns2239:para>
				</ns2238:listitem>
				<ns2240:listitem xmlns:ns2240="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
					<ns2241:para xmlns:ns2241="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
					FTP - Installing over the network of a FTP server.
					</ns2241:para>
				</ns2240:listitem>
				<ns2242:listitem xmlns:ns2242="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
					<ns2243:para xmlns:ns2243="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
					HTTP - Installing over the network of a HTTP server.
					</ns2243:para>
				</ns2242:listitem>
			</ns2233:itemizedlist>
			</ns2232:para>
		</ns2230:formalpara>
		
		<ns2244:formalpara xmlns:ns2244="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2245:title xmlns:ns2245="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Mouse configuration</ns2245:title>
			<ns2246:para xmlns:ns2246="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			Select the mouse connected to the workstation. When in doubt select a generic model. Important to tick <ns2247:quote xmlns:ns2247="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Emulate 3 buttons</ns2247:quote> which emulates a three button mouse. The middle button is emulated when both the left and right buttons are pressed simultaneously. This is a useful feature as the middle button performs a <ns2248:emphasis xmlns:ns2248="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">paste</ns2248:emphasis> function of anything previously highlighted and <ns2249:emphasis xmlns:ns2249="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">copied</ns2249:emphasis> with the left button. 
			</ns2246:para>
		</ns2244:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2250:formalpara xmlns:ns2250="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2251:title xmlns:ns2251="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Installation type</ns2251:title>
			<ns2252:para xmlns:ns2252="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				Personal Desktop (home / desktop use), Workstation (tools for development), Server (file and print sharing, web services), Custom (Everything ...)
			</ns2252:para>
		</ns2250:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2253:formalpara xmlns:ns2253="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2254:title xmlns:ns2254="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Partitioning</ns2254:title>
			<ns2255:para xmlns:ns2255="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				Autopartition vs Disk druid. This will create a default set of partitions required. A small boot partition to store the kernel image. A swap partition to be used as virtual memory and a root partition on which the distribution resides.
			</ns2255:para>
		</ns2253:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2256:formalpara xmlns:ns2256="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2257:title xmlns:ns2257="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Bootloader</ns2257:title>
			<ns2258:para xmlns:ns2258="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				Grub, Lilo or nothing. Grub (the default) will cater for most needs.
			</ns2258:para>
		</ns2256:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2259:formalpara xmlns:ns2259="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2260:title xmlns:ns2260="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Network</ns2260:title>
			<ns2261:para xmlns:ns2261="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				Network configuration allows the configuration of the IP address, DNS server, default gateway and the workstations hostname.
			</ns2261:para>
		</ns2259:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2262:formalpara xmlns:ns2262="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2263:title xmlns:ns2263="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Firewall</ns2263:title>
			<ns2264:para xmlns:ns2264="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				For the paranoid. A local firewall blocking access to ports. This configures iptables to perform port filtering.
			</ns2264:para>
		</ns2262:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2265:formalpara xmlns:ns2265="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2266:title xmlns:ns2266="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Language Support</ns2266:title>
			<ns2267:para xmlns:ns2267="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				Basic English (default) should suffice in most cases.
			</ns2267:para>
		</ns2265:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2268:formalpara xmlns:ns2268="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2269:title xmlns:ns2269="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Timezone</ns2269:title>
			<ns2270:para xmlns:ns2270="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				Select Africa / Johannesburg.
			</ns2270:para>
		</ns2268:formalpara>	

		<ns2271:formalpara xmlns:ns2271="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2272:title xmlns:ns2272="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Root Password</ns2272:title>
			<ns2273:para xmlns:ns2273="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				Set the Administrator password to <ns2274:quote xmlns:ns2274="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">stc007</ns2274:quote>. Please note small case.
			</ns2273:para>
		</ns2271:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2275:formalpara xmlns:ns2275="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2276:title xmlns:ns2276="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Authentication config</ns2276:title>
			<ns2277:para xmlns:ns2277="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				MD5, shadow, NIS, LDAP, Kerberos 5 and SMB. Users are authenticated via a local file containing a MD5 checksum of their password, a shadow file containing their encrypted password, NIS, LDAP, Kerberos 5 encryption or SMB (Windows). The default MD5 and shadow file typically suffice.
			</ns2277:para>
		</ns2275:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2278:formalpara xmlns:ns2278="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2279:title xmlns:ns2279="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Packages</ns2279:title>
			<ns2280:para xmlns:ns2280="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				For a client workstation scroll down to the end of the list and select "everything" at the end of the list.
			</ns2280:para>
		</ns2278:formalpara>	
	
		<ns2281:formalpara xmlns:ns2281="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2282:title xmlns:ns2282="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Wait !</ns2282:title>
			<ns2283:para xmlns:ns2283="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				Dependent on package selection and workstation up to 1 hour.
			</ns2283:para>
		</ns2281:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2284:formalpara xmlns:ns2284="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2285:title xmlns:ns2285="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Bootdisk</ns2285:title>
			<ns2286:para xmlns:ns2286="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				If you would like to create a boot disk, which can be used to recover a faulty boot sectory for example, use this option.
			</ns2286:para>
		</ns2284:formalpara>	
		
		<ns2287:formalpara xmlns:ns2287="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
			<ns2288:title xmlns:ns2288="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">X Windows</ns2288:title>
			<ns2289:para xmlns:ns2289="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
				Dependent on the hardware configuration, the installed graphics card and monitor are detected. In some cases minor modifications are required. Also select the default login page (KDE or Gnome).
			</ns2289:para>
		</ns2287:formalpara>	
		
	</ns2216:section>
	
	<ns2290:section xmlns:ns2290="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2291:title xmlns:ns2291="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Documentation</ns2291:title>
		<ns2292:para xmlns:ns2292="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		A good amount of information about Linux and available applications are available with the distributions documentation and resides in <ns2293:emphasis xmlns:ns2293="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">/usr/share/docs</ns2293:emphasis> or <ns2294:emphasis xmlns:ns2294="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">/usr/local/share/docs</ns2294:emphasis>. Further information on specific topics in the form of <ns2295:emphasis xmlns:ns2295="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="strong">HowTo's</ns2295:emphasis> (whitepapers) is available online from the Linux Documentation Project (LDP). These HowTo offer step by step instructions as well as information on many topics and services. Many newsgroups and IRC channels also offer assistance, although questions which are well documented in FAQ's, HowTos etc are frowned upon, and might not result in the intended response. 
		</ns2292:para>
		<ns2296:note xmlns:ns2296="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns2297:para xmlns:ns2297="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">RTFM and RTFS are good guides, even though they may not always be the easiest.</ns2297:para>
		</ns2296:note>
	</ns2290:section>	
</ns2176:section>