<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">
    <title>Java EE and SOA</title>
    <para>
        Java EE is the most widely used reference architecture for enterprise systems based on the
        layered architectural pattern. It provides the basis for multi-tiered enterprise systems and is
        particularly useful for interactive systems.
    </para>
    <para>
        Another widely used reference architecture for enterprise systems is the Services Oriented
        Architecture (SOA). The Java community has provided a standard API specification for
        SOA based systems, the
        <emphasis>Java Business Integration</emphasis>
        (JBI) specification.
    </para>
    <para>
        SOA provides an infrastructure for
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    defining, maintaining and executing business processes defined across enterprise systems,
                </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para>
                    decoupling enterprise systems such that they just provide services to or
                    request services from the enterprise bus.
                </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        SOA is not meant to replace Java EE. It does not provide an infrastructure for effectively
        hosting business logic and does not provide a presentation layer. The individual systems
        integrated through the enterprise bus may very often be based on the Java EE architecture.
    </para>
</section>      