<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.qualityAttributes.security.perimeterDefense" xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://www.docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd">

  <title>Perimeter defense systems</title>
  <para>
    Perimeter defense systems establish a wall on the boundary of a system or 
    protected area. They include <emphasis>firewalls</emphasis> and 
    <emphasis>virtual private networks</emphasis> (VPN). A firewall
    is used to restrict incoming (and possibly outgoing) IP connection requests.
  </para> 
  <para>
    However, firewalls are getting more porous as the business 
    requirements call for increased access to the systems of companies.
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>Demilitarized zone (DMZ)</title>
    <para>
      A demilitarized zone is a computer or small subnetwork that sits between a trusted 
      internal network, such as a corporate private LAN, and an untrusted external network, 
      such as the public Internet.
      It prevents outside users from getting direct access to a server that has company data. 
  </para>
  <para>
    Users of the untrusted external network outside the company can access only the DMZ host. 
    The DMZ hosts public information like the company´s Web pages.
    In the event that an outside user penetrated the DMZ hosts security, this public information
    may get corrupted but no other company information would be exposed. 
  </para>
  
  <section>
    <title>A simple DMZ configuration</title>
    <para>
      One way to create a DMZ is with a machine that has three network interfaces, one for the 
      WAN connection (the public network),  one for the DMZ network, and one for the 
      internal network. 
    </para>  
    <para>
      In this configuration the security of all three networks resides on a single machine, the 
      DMZ host. If DMZ host is compromised your DMZ and private networks may be too.
      It is not recommended that the machine which determines how secure your internal LAN 
      is, is accessible from the Internet.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>An improved DMZ configuration</title>
    <para>
       A more secure DMZ configuration uses two firewall devices - one on the border of your 
       WAN, and one on the border of your internal network. Your internal firewall host connects
       on the one side to the DMZ and on the other side to a switch your LAN machines
       connect to.
    </para>
    <para>
      In this way you segmented your network in terms of trust. Internal machines can establish
      connections to the DMZ and to the Internet, but neither of those two networks can 
      initiate connections to LAN machines. Both, the public network and the DMZ network
      are regarded as untrusted and if your DMZ host is compromised, your LAN may still be
      secure.
    </para> 
    <para>
      The security is further improved by having a router/firewall in front of the DMZ host 
      which only forwards TCP connection requests for port 80 to the DMZ host.
    </para>
  </section>
  </section>
</section>