<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    
    <title>Changing file ownership via <command>chown</command></title>
    <para>
        Any file in Linux belongs to a user and to a group.  If a user creates a file without
        specifying the file ownership, the file will be owned by the user, and the
        group is set to a generic <emphasis>users</emphasis> group.
    </para>
    <para>
        To change the ownership of a file, one uses the <command>chown</command>
        command, which takes a user and a group name as argument separated
        by a colon. For example, the following line changes the ownership of all files
        in the current directory to the user <emphasis>donald</emphasis> and the
        group <emphasis>ducks:</emphasis>
        <cmdsynopsis>
            <command>chown donald:ducks *</command>      
        </cmdsynopsis>
    </para>
    <para>
        Very often you will have to be the superuser to change file permissions to what you
        want.
        User and/or group ids can be used instead of user and group names. Also, one
        of the two can be omitted, changing only either the owner user or the owner group.
        For example
        <cmdsynopsis><command>
            chown donald duckMenu.txt        
        </command></cmdsynopsis>
        changes the user owner for the file <filename>duckMenu.txt</filename> and
        <cmdsynopsis><command>
            chown :501 docs/*
        </command></cmdsynopsis>
        changes the owner group of all files in the <filename>docs</filename> subdirectory
        of the current directory to the group with group id 501.
    </para>
    <table>
        <title>Command line flags for <command>chown</command></title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
            <thead>
                <row><entry>flag</entry><entry>description</entry></row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
                <row>
                    <entry>-R, --recursive</entry>
                    <entry>
                        Apply the ownership changes recursively across the directory hierarchy.
                    </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>--from=CURRENT_OWNER:CURRENT_GROUP</entry>
                    <entry>
                        This flag requests the ownership of only those files which are currently owned 
                        by a specified user and/or group is changed.
                    </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>--reference=REFERENCE_FILE</entry>
                    <entry>
                        Change the ownership of the target files to that of a specified reference file,
                        <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> both the user and the group owner of the target files
                        will be the same as that of the reference file after the command has completed.
                    </entry>
                </row>          
                <row>
                    <entry>--dereference</entry>
                    <entry>
                        In the case where the file is a symbolic link to another file, change the permission
                        of the file the link refers to, instead of the symbolic link itself.
                    </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>-h, --no-dereference</entry>
                    <entry>
                        In the case where the file is a symbolic link to another file, change the permission
                        of the symbolic link itself, and not that of the file the link refers to.
                    </entry>
                </row>          
                <row>
                    <entry>-v, --verbose</entry>
                    <entry>
                        Output for each file what has been done (ownership changed or retained).
                    </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>-c, --changes</entry>
                    <entry>
                        A version of verbose which reports only on the changes made by 
                        <command>chown</command>.
                    </entry>
                </row>
                <row>
                    <entry>-f, --silent, --quiet</entry>          
                    <entry>
                        Suppress most error messages.
                    </entry>
                </row>          
            </tbody>
        </tgroup>
    </table>
    
    <section>
        <title>Changing the group owner of a file via <command>chgrp</command></title>
        <para>
            One can also use <command>chgrp</command> to change the group ownership only.
            It works in the same way as <command>chown</command> except that it only takes 
            a group name (no user name) and changes only the group ownership of the target files.
        </para>
        <para>
            For example
            <cmdsynopsis><command>
                chgrp -R ducks docs/*
            </command></cmdsynopsis>
            changes recursively the group owner of all files in the <filename>docs</filename> 
            subdirectory of the current directory to the group with name<emphasis>ducks</emphasis>.
        </para>
    </section>
    
</section>

