<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns636:section xmlns:ns636="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2me.multimedia.gameAPI">

	<ns637:title xmlns:ns637="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Game API</ns637:title>
	<ns638:para xmlns:ns638="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
	The game API was added in the MIDP2 specification, and is confined to the <ns639:emphasis xmlns:ns639="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
	javax.microedition.lcdui.game</ns639:emphasis> package. Within this package 5 classes make 
	up the game API. 
	</ns638:para>
	<ns640:formalpara xmlns:ns640="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns641:title xmlns:ns641="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">GameCanvas</ns641:title>
		<ns642:para xmlns:ns642="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		This class is a subclass of LCDUI's Canvas and provides the basic 'screen' 
		functionality for a game. In addition to the methods inherited from Canvas, 
		this class also provides game-centric features such the ability to query the 
		current state of the game keys and synchronous graphics flushing; these 
		features simplify game development and improve performance.
		</ns642:para>
	</ns640:formalpara>	
	<ns643:formalpara xmlns:ns643="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns644:title xmlns:ns644="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Layer</ns644:title>
		<ns645:para xmlns:ns645="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		The Layer class represents a visual element in a game such as a Sprite or a 
		TiledLayer. This abstract class forms the basis for the Layer framework and 
		provides basic attributes such as location, size, and visibility.
		</ns645:para>
	</ns643:formalpara>	
	<ns646:formalpara xmlns:ns646="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns647:title xmlns:ns647="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">LayerManager</ns647:title>
		<ns648:para xmlns:ns648="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		For games that employ several Layers, the LayerManager simplifies game 
		development by automating the rendering process. It allows the developer 
		set a view window that represents the user's view of the game. The 
		LayerManager automatically renders the game's Layers to implement the desired
		view.
		</ns648:para>
	</ns646:formalpara>	
	<ns649:formalpara xmlns:ns649="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns650:title xmlns:ns650="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Sprite</ns650:title>
		<ns651:para xmlns:ns651="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		A Sprite is basic animated Layer that can display one of several graphical frames. 
		The frames are all of equal size and are provided by a single Image object. In 
		addition to animating the frames sequentially, a custom sequence can also be set 
		to animation the frames in an arbitrary manner. The Sprite class also provides 
		various transformations (flip and rotation) and collision detection methods that 
		simplify the implementation of a game's logic.
		</ns651:para>
	</ns649:formalpara>	
	<ns652:formalpara xmlns:ns652="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		<ns653:title xmlns:ns653="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">TiledLayer</ns653:title>
		<ns654:para xmlns:ns654="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
		This class enables a developer to create large areas of graphical content without 
		the resource usage that a large Image object would require. It is a comprised of 
		a grid of cells, and each cell can display one of several tiles that are provided 
		by a single Image object. Cells can also be filled with animated tiles whose 
		corresponding pixel data can be changed very rapidly; this feature is very useful 
		for animating large groups of cells such as areas of water. 
		</ns654:para>
	</ns652:formalpara>	
</ns636:section>