<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Investment risk</title>
    <para>
        Technology investment risk is often difficult to assess. There are, however, aspects of open source and Linux which contribute to reducing
        investment risk including
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Open source reduces risk longevity and support risk</title>
                <para>
                    Unlike vendor products, an open source project can be easily taken over by other teams to extend its life and to provide support.
                    If all else fails the product can be supported inhouse. Furthermore, should a particular distribution "die off", the switch to one of the 
                    many other Linux distribtions is usually a quite low cost switch
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Open source reduces quality risk</title>
                <para>
                    Due to the openness and potentially many developers looking at the code, the quality risks are generally lower. Quality issues
                    can be addressed by anybody including the development team of the client organization.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Large availability of distributions</title>
                <para>
                    Should a particular distribution fall out of favour and not be maintained sufficiently, there are many other distributions to choose from.
                    this is also useful if one hits a snag with a particular distribution resulting in excessive cost to the client. The consequence might be
                    to move to another distribution which addresses the client's concerns.                    
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Strong modularization</title>
                <para>
                    The strong modularization and open nature of the platform provides the ability to plug out problematic components and replace
                    them with other components which address your particular concern.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Adherence to and making of public standards</title>
                <para>
                    Public standards evolve more slowly, have a longer life expectancy and enjoy wider support. The open source community has no interest
                    in vendor locking and generally provides good adherence to public standards.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    