<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-01-16 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Mapping UML access levels onto Java</title>

    <para> Java supports very similar access levels to those provided by UML. It supports both, the
            <emphasis>public</emphasis> and <emphasis>package</emphasis> access levels with package
        access level being the default for Java. There is thus no keyword for package scope. If no
        access level is requested, package scope is assumed. </para>
    <para> The <emphasis>protected</emphasis> access level in Java provides not only access to
        sub-class instances, but also to any objecct from any class which is within the same package
        -- <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>
        <emphasis>protected</emphasis> includes <emphasis>package scope</emphasis>. </para>
    <para> The <emphasis>private</emphasis> access level in Java does not mean private to the
        instance, but private to the class. Thus, from within one instance of, for example, the
        account class, you can access directly the private balance of another instance of an
        account. </para>
    <para> Generally one should use only the <emphasis>private</emphasis> access level for class
        fields, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> fields should preferbly be encapsulated to within a class as
        they represent an implementation detail of the class). Services, on the other hand, are
        commonly defined with public and protected scope. Package scope is used seldom for services. </para>
    <para> At times, classes are meant to be an implementation detail of a framework. Such classes
        should only be accessible from other classes within that same framework. This is achieved by
        defining a package for the framework and declaring such a class with
        <emphasis>package</emphasis> scope. </para>
    <para> As an example of the Java syntax for access level specification, consider the following
        code extract:
        <programlisting language="Java">
<xi:include parse="text" href="LinkedList.java"/>
        </programlisting>
        Here the <literal>Node</literal> class has been defined with package scope. It is reusable
        within the package for the collections framework, but not visible by users of that
        framework. </para>

</section>
