<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section
  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" 
  xml:id="resources.information.solms.training.courses.AdvancedJava.courseNotes.ooReview.assertions.whatIsAnAssertion">
 
    <title>What is an Assertion?</title>
  
  <indexterm>
    <primary>Assertions</primary>
    <secondary>definition</secondary>
  </indexterm>

<para>An assertion is an expression which evaluates to a boolean result. The boolean
expression evaluates to <literal>true</literal> if the state is as
  expected, and to
<literal>false</literal> if the developer's assumptions are not valid.</para>

<para>For example, a developer might assume that a collection is sorted after having called a
sorting routine. An assertion could be used to verify this. In the
production system, this assertion could be switched off, assuming a
rigorous system test programme has been followed to ensure that the
assumptions holds true in all reasonable situations. This would ensure
that no performance cost is incurred.</para>

<para>The Java run-time environment will generate an <literal>Error</literal> if an assertion
evaluates to <literal>false</literal>. Recall that errors, unlike exceptions, are
not meant to be caught - they resemble non-recoverable system errors which should be 
reported to the system's developers. An assertion error is likely to bring
down the entire application immediately - which is the most sensible
behaviour when one is no longer certain that it is in a valid (trust-able)
state</para>
    
</section>
