<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Quality attribute assessment for space based architectures</title>
    <para>
        <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
        Space based architectures have been specifically designed to provide a high-performance,
        <indexterm><primary>scalability</primary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>reliability</primary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>flexibility</primary></indexterm>
        <indexterm><primary>performance</primary></indexterm>
        scalable, reliable and flexible infrastructure. As space bassed architectures mature, one could expect
        that their use will grow for systems for which these qualities are important.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Scalability</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>scalability</primary><secondary>in space based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
            The architecture, if solidly implemented, should indeed provide linear or very close to linear scalability.
            It is based on a fully distributed grid model including distributed, replicated and synchronized
            <indexterm><primary>redundency</primary><secondary>in space based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>replication</primary><secondary>in space based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>synchronization</primary></indexterm>
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    processing units,
                    <indexterm><primary>processing unit</primary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    data objects, and
                    <indexterm><primary>data</primary><secondary>object</secondary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    a distributed notification mechanism.
                    <indexterm><primary>notification</primary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
   </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Reliability</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>reliability</primary></indexterm>
            The architecture inherently provides a framework with
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    passive redundency for all components and
                    <indexterm><primary>redundency</primary><secondary>passive</secondary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the possibility of using active redundency for some of the work flow steps. 
                    <indexterm><primary>redundency</primary><secondary>active</secondary></indexterm>
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
            Reliability should certainly be a strength of space based architectures.
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Flexibility</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>flexibility</primary></indexterm>
            This is a bit of a two-sided sword for SBAs.
            While SBAs provide a framework supporting a very high level of flexibility, the process of
            deploying new processes (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> business processes) wihin the architecture
            is a complex one which requires users to make a paradim shift from the standard algorithmic
            <indexterm><primary>algorithmic approach</primary><secondary>to process specification</secondary></indexterm>
            based approach to a more loosely coupled event based approach.
            <indexterm><primary>event based approach</primary><secondary>to process specification</secondary></indexterm>
        </para>
        <para>
            Most probably tools will emerge through which one can switch between event based views and
            <indexterm><primary>event based view</primary><secondary>of process</secondary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>flow view</primary><secondary>of process</secondary></indexterm>
            effective algorithmic views. This should enable users to work both, within
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    a traditional process centric approach where a process is assembled from lower
                    level processing steps and where the business process for a specific level of granularity
                    is typically defined by a single role player (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> person or team).
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    a cooperative, decentralized approach where the process is defined implicitly be adding 
                    and registering event handlers to receive and process events, thereby specifying very loosely
                    coupled workflow steps which are more implictly assembled into a higher level business 
                    process.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>    
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Maintainability</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>maintainability</primary><secondary>in space based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
            The infrastructure can be maintained without bringing down the system, typically by 
            changing the resources available within the system including the resources used
            by the processing and data/messaging grids. New processing resources can be deployed
            <indexterm><primary>resource</primary></indexterm>
            and registered to process certain events without bringing down the system.
        </para>
   </section>         
    
    <section>
        <title>Performance</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>performance</primary><secondary>in space based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
            <indexterm>
                <primary>architecture</primary><secondary>space based</secondary>
                <see><indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm></see>
            </indexterm>
            High-performance is one of the claims made to be easily achievable within space based 
            architectures. In reality the architecture is more geared toward scalability than performance.
            <indexterm><primary>scalability</primary></indexterm>
            The actual level of performance will largely be determined by
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    <indexterm><primary>communication</primary><secondary>channel</secondary></indexterm>
                    <indexterm><primary>communication</primary><secondary>protocol</secondary></indexterm>
                    the communication channel and protocol characteristics used by the processing
                    units to interface with the space, and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the processing power and algorithm efficiency within the processing units.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Auditability</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>auditability</primary><secondary>in space based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
            Auditability is easiily realized within a state based architecture. The framework can simply
            <indexterm><primary>logging</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>data</primary><secondary>grid</secondary></indexterm>
            log all events  submitted into space as well as all notification messages dispatched to 
            processing units. This would be done by creating logging objects on the data grid.
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Security</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>security</primary><secondary>in space based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
            The security challanges are in some ways similar to those enountered in services oriented
            <indexterm><primary>services oriented architecture (SOA)</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm>
                <primary>architecture</primary><secondary>services oriented</secondary>
                <seealso><indexterm><primary>services oriented architecture</primary></indexterm></seealso>
            </indexterm>
            <indexterm>
                <primary>SOA</primary>
                <see><indexterm><primary>services oriented architecture</primary></indexterm></see>
            </indexterm>
            <indexterm>
                <primary>architecture</primary><secondary>space based oriented</secondary>
                <seealso><indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm></seealso>
            </indexterm>
            <indexterm>
                <primary>SBA</primary>
                <see><indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm></see>
            </indexterm>
            architectures in that the authentication credentials either need to be securely propagated
          across the processing units or that the authentication is centralized and that the security
          roles are propagated across the processing units.
        </para>
        <para>
            SBA itself does not currently provide any specific infrastructure for this. This is thus left to 
            the various SBA implementation frameworks. These may choose to use the infrastructure
            of augmenting technologies like web services or Java EE to achieve this.
            <indexterm><primary>web services</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>Java EE</primary></indexterm>
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Integrability</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>integrability</primary><secondary>in space based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
            The SBA reference architecture does not require that any specific integration standards
            are supported by implementation frameworks. Implementation framework do, however,
            provide an integration framework with pluggable adapters to a range of technologies.
       </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Usability</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>usability</primary><secondary>in space based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
            Usability is not directly addressed as the presentation layer is not specified by SBA.
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Cost</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>space based architecture</primary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>cost</primary><secondary>of space based architecture</secondary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>skills requirements</primary><secondary>for space based architectures</secondary></indexterm>
            Most implementations of space based architectures are open source. The cost components are thus largely
            around obtaining or developing skills resources around the technology and putting the actual infrastructure
            in place. 
        </para>
        <para>
            The technical skills requirements for developers is quite low. Higher skills are required to maintain the
            architecture itself and to design the processes to be deployed within the architecture.
        </para>
    </section>    
    
</section>    