<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author: fritz@solms.co.za -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Building and running the server and client</title>
    <para>
        The server and client can be built independently - they do not have any dependencies on
        each other, only on the CORBA contract, i.e. the IDL. From the IDL they generate the
        artifacts they need.
    </para>
    <para>
        Using the Maven poms we simply build the client and server via
        <programlisting>
mvn clean package            
        </programlisting>
        or
        <programlisting>
mvn clean install            
        </programlisting>
        to have the project outputs in the local Maven repository.
    </para>
    <para>
        The server build will run the unit test for the server which already starts our CORBA
        server, registers it with a naming service and has the test look up the CORBA server
        and use it. The output should be something like the following
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
            -------------------------------------------------------
 T E S T S
-------------------------------------------------------
Running za.co.solms.elections.server.ElectionServerTest
Dec 13, 2010 9:23:14 PM za.co.solms.elections.server.ElectionServerTest startServer
INFO: Creating and initializing instance of an Object Request Broker
Dec 13, 2010 9:23:14 PM za.co.solms.elections.server.ElectionServerTest startServer
INFO: Creating a transient name service
Dec 13, 2010 9:23:14 PM za.co.solms.elections.server.ElectionServerTest startServer
INFO: Starting election server.
Dec 13, 2010 9:23:14 PM za.co.solms.elections.server.ElectionServerTest startServer
INFO: Waiting for a while till things are started.
Election server ORB initialised
Dec 13, 2010 9:23:15 PM za.co.solms.elections.server.ElectionServerTest startServer
INFO: Get a handle to the naming context
Dec 13, 2010 9:23:15 PM za.co.solms.elections.server.ElectionServerTest startServer
INFO: Completed once-off initialization, now ready to run tests ...
Dec 13, 2010 9:23:15 PM za.co.solms.elections.server.ElectionServerTest testServer
INFO: Creating parties
Dec 13, 2010 9:23:15 PM za.co.solms.elections.server.ElectionServerTest testServer
INFO: Creating parties
Added 233 votes for Workers Party = 233
Total number of votes cast = 233
The Workers Party has now 100.00% of the votes.

Added 408 votes for Workers Party = 408
Total number of votes cast = 408
The Workers Party has now 100.00% of the votes.

Added 419 votes for Workers Party = 419
Total number of votes cast = 419
The Workers Party has now 100.00% of the votes.

Added 438 votes for Establishment Party = 438
Total number of votes cast = 857
The Establishment Party has now 51.11% of the votes.

Added 548 votes for Establishment Party = 548
Total number of votes cast = 967
The Establishment Party has now 56.67% of the votes.

Added 720 votes for Workers Party = 720
Total number of votes cast = 1268
The Workers Party has now 56.78% of the votes.

FINAL RESULTS:
==============
Workers Party: 56.78% (num votes: 720)
Establishment Party: 43.22% (num votes: 548)
Total votes cast: 1268
Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 1.871 sec

Results :

Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0
            ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Running the server and cient "in production"</title>
        <para>
            In the "production run" we need to start a CORBA name server on some machine, 
            specifying the port which should be used by the name server, e.g.
            <programlisting>
tnameserv -ORBInitialPort 2000                
            </programlisting>
            launch the server
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
java -jar server-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar -ORBInitialPort 2000 -ORBInitialHost <nameServerHost>                
            ]]></programlisting>
            and finally the client via
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
java -jar client-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar -ORBInitialPort 2000 -ORBInitialHost <nameServerHost>                
            ]]></programlisting>
        </para>
    </section>    
</section>    