<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns233:section xmlns:ns233="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.documenting.examples.interpharm.architecture.risksTradeOffs.risksTradeOffs">
  <ns234:title xmlns:ns234="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Architectural risks and trade-offs</ns234:title>
  <ns235:para xmlns:ns235="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  
  </ns235:para>
  
  <ns236:section xmlns:ns236="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns237:title xmlns:ns237="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Security</ns237:title>
    <ns238:para xmlns:ns238="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Currently the communication between pharmacies and the switch and the switch and medical aid
      administators is transmitted largely with little or no support for confidentiality (encryption) and data
      integrity (hashing). As the communication is ported over to HTTP and/or web services, the
      support for this can be easily added via SSL. 
    </ns238:para>
  </ns236:section>
  
  <ns239:section xmlns:ns239="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns240:title xmlns:ns240="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Transaction management</ns240:title>
    <ns241:para xmlns:ns241="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Currently the transaction boundaries are compromised by not being able to place the technical
      boundaries on the true business boundaries (in principle, the transaction spans from the
      pharmacy over interpharm and the administrator back to the pharmacy). This means that separate
      use cases for performing inverse transactions to cater for incorrectly committed transactions
      need to be supported.
    </ns241:para>
    <ns242:para xmlns:ns242="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Also, the transaction context is currently not propagated through the JCA connector to the
      administrator system, resulting additional logic to for roll-back requests in the claim switching
      system and the administrator having to provide support for roll back via inverse
      transactions. 
    </ns242:para>
  </ns239:section>
  
  <ns243:section xmlns:ns243="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns244:title xmlns:ns244="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Fail over safety in the socket connection layer</ns244:title>
    <ns245:para xmlns:ns245="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The socket connection layer has limited fail-over safety. If a machine goes down, then the
      connections to the client are lost and all transactions
    </ns245:para>
  </ns243:section>
  
  <ns246:section xmlns:ns246="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns247:title xmlns:ns247="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Database synchronization</ns247:title>
    <ns248:para xmlns:ns248="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      If a database server falls over, it may not have been able to synchronize all data to the
      second database server yet. This introduces a risk of aborting workflows and duplicate  claims on database server
      failure.
    </ns248:para>
  </ns246:section>
  
  
</ns233:section>