<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Process attributes</title>
    <para>
        Each process has a number of attributes providing context information about the process:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>The Process ID (PID)</title>
                <para>
                    The PID provides a unique identifier which can be used for process control 
                    (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> when killing a process).
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>The ID of the Parent Process (PPID)</title>
                <para>
                    This is the ID of that process which launched the process.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>The Terminal (TTY)</title>
                <para>
                    The terminal to which the process is connected.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Real and Effective User Names (RUID and EUID)</title>
                <para>
                    Processes are launched by users, but a user can request that a process runs
                    with the access rules of another user.
                    The real and effective owners of the process where
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            the <emphasis>real owner</emphasis> is the user which launched the process and
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            the <emphasis>effective owner</emphasis> determines the access to system resources,
                            <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> the process is subject to the access rules of the effective user.
                            The effective user is determined by the application file's security settings, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>
                            the owner of the file which is executed when launching the process.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Real and effective group owners</title>
                <para>
                    The real group owner is the primary group of the user which launched the process. The
                    effective group owner, on the other hand, is the group security setting of the file which
                    was run when the process was started.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>The Nice Number (NI)</title>
                <para>
                    The nice number represents the degree of friendliness of that process with respect to 
                    other processes. The nice number is not the priority of the process. The latter is 
                    calculated by the operating system from the nice number and the recent CPU
                    usage of that process.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>  
    
</section>
