<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         version="5.0"
         xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.referenceArchitectures.j2ee.clustering.clustering">

  <title>Clustering</title>
  <para>
    Clustering is a group of machines working transparently together to provide enterprise services
    with a higher level of reliability and scalability.
  </para>
  
  <section>
      <title>What needs to be clustered</title>
      <para>
      For a fail-over safe system, one would preferably not have any single point of failure,
      <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> a situation where the failure in one system component results in a
      failure. To this end one would usually want redundancy and fail over safety in all of the following:
      <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
               <para>firewalls,</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>load balancers,</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>web containers with session replication,</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>EJB containers with session replication,</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>JNDI repositories with synchronization,</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>data bases with synchronization and fail-safe data base connections or SAN
          switches,</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>messaging services, and</para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
               <para>web services.</para>
            </listitem>
         </itemizedlist>
      </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
      <title>Availability versus reliability</title>
      <para>
      In a high availability system a redundant server is available when a server falls over. The
      user may, however, have to establish a new session and the session state of the previous
      session will typically get lost.
    </para>
      <para>
      In a high reliability system the state of the various components is replicated across the
      cluster or at least across parts of the cluster such that, upon a server falling over, the
      user can transparently continue with his/her work flow without realizing that the machine 
      hosting the session has been switched.
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
      <title>Using Storage Area Networks (SAN)</title>
      <para>
      Normally shared disk clusters where software elements on different nodes use shared
      persistent storage would be avoided due to the single point of failure at the persistence
      level. However, SAN can provide a single logical interface into a redundant storage medium to provide 
      failover and scalability.
    </para>
      <para>
      Using shared fail-over safe storage as in SAN systems reduces the complexity around the
      replication and synchronization
    </para>
  </section>
  
  <section>
      <title>Replication algorithms</title>
      <para>
      Some application servers like perform cluster-wide or partition-wide replication
      with automatic cluster configuration via node discovery mechanisms, while others like
      perform single-node replication with spawning of another replicated bean
      on another available node upon node failure.
    </para>
  </section>
  
</section>