<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-06-02 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>What does the IEEE 1471 specification provide?</title>
    <para>
        IEEE 1471 does not specify either a template or a methodology for the architectural description. It solely defines a
        conceptual framework which architectural descriptions should conform to.
    </para>
    <para>
        The following is a list of core aspects of the IEEE 1471 specification:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                The specification provides a definition and a meta-model for the description of an architecture.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                It emphasises that an architecture exists to address specific stakeholder concerns.     
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                It asserts that architecture descriptions are inherently multi-view, i.e. that a single view cannot provide a full
                understanding of the architectural concerns and its solution without becoming unmanagebly complex.     
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                It defines the concept and the artifacts for particular type of view as a viewpoint. A viewpoint identifies the set of concerns and the 
                representations/modeling techniques, etc. used to describe the architectural elements which address these concerns.     
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                It establishes that a conforming architecture description has a 1-to-1 correspondence between its viewpoints and its views.     
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                It provides for capturing rationale and inconsistencies/unresolved issues between the views within a single architecture description.                
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    
    <xi:include href="metamodel/metamodel.docbook"/>
    
</section>    