<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2009-4-16 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Examples of agile processes</title>
    <para>
        Many well known  pioneers of object-oriented development have been involved in developing more light-weight processes.
        These were often in-house developed, but many of them have grown to more formal and widely adopted methodologies.
        Examples of agile methodologies include
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Extreme programming (XP)</title>
                <para>
                    XP is a widely adopted software development methodology developed by Kent Beck, Martin Fowler and Ron Jeffries which
                    puts a lot of emphasis on aspects like testing, very short delivery cycles, continuous integration, pair programming,
                    measurability and simplification of communication channels.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Crystal family of methodologies</title>
                <para>
                    The crystal family of methodologies was developed by Alister Cockburn. They represent person centric development
                    methodologies which aim to realize many concepts from the agile manifesto including
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                          valuing people over processes,    
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            frequent deliverable of usable code generating direct value to users,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            co-location simplifying communication channels,                            
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            automated testing,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            frequent integration, and
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            emphasis on a habitable process,
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            reflective improvement.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Adaptive Software Development (ASD)</title>
                <para>
                    ASD provides a self adaptive process where continuous learning results in continuous
                    optimization of the process itself. It was developed by Jim Highsmith and Sam Bayer and
                    first published by Jim Highsmith in 2000.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Feature-Driven Development (FDD)</title>
                <para>
                    This agile methodology was developed in 1997 by Jeff De Luca and Peter Coad in the context of
                    improving the development process used by a Singapore Bank. The central concept around which
                    all development evolves are feature representing functional components which directly represent
                    value to the client.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Dynamic System Development Method (DSDM)</title>
                <para>
                    DSDM is an agile development methodology which is a further development of the <emphasis>Rapid
                    Application Development</emphasis> (RAD) process. It was developed in the early 1990's requiring
                    strong user involvement, devolution of decision making and frequent delivery of value. 
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Scrum</title>
                <para>
                    Scrum was developed in the early 1990's as a process which based on two <emphasis>inspect and adapt</emphasis>
                    cycles through which the process welcomes and integrates continuous requirements changes. It is a feature driven process 
                    which aims to deliver user value in short iterations. It encourages self-organizing
                    teams and verbal communication.
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
</section>    