<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title> Advanced Packaging Tool (APT) </title>

    <para> Advanced Packaging Tool (APT) has enhanced the usability of most debian package management
        systems, It is the best feature for most PMS across debian based distributions such as
        Debian and Ubuntu. It enables the user to add, remove and upgrade packages without thinking
        about dependences. It gets all the required packages and their dependencies from the
        repository specified on the <programlisting> /etc/sources.lists</programlisting>. Even
        though APT was meant to be a front end for dpkg it supports does not end there, it also
        supports other distributions such as the RPM based distributions, Solaries, Mac OS X. The
        recent implementation of APT on on smart phones is the Telesphoreo projects which ports APT to iPhone.</para>
        

    <para> Like most tools in linux, apt is made of other little tools and it is used in conjunction
        with other tools. Dpkg manages and perform functions on a single .deb archive, It gives
        you basic functionality, but its usage is limited to one package.</para>
    
    <para>Commands you can execute to perform some operations using APT <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <programlisting>apt-get install</programlisting>
                <para> Is used to install a package </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <programlisting>apt-get update</programlisting>
                <para> It first looks for all the new updates for installed applications, then
                    gets and installs them with their dependences as specified on the in the
                    sources.lists file. It does not compile the the packages from source </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <programlisting>apt-get upgrade</programlisting>
                <para>It is used upgrade package you have on your system and also used to upgrade to
                    the newer distribution. To upgrade to a new release you use
                    <programlisting> apt-get dist</programlisting></para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <programlisting>apt-get remove</programlisting>
                <para> is used to remove packages from the system </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist></para>
    <important>
        <blockquote>
            <para> Even though the commands are not distribution specific, they might slightly
                differ across distributions. The difference will most probably be added functionality</para>
        </blockquote>
    </important>
</section>
