<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    version="5.0">
    
    <title>What can the EJB Timer Service be used for?</title>
    
    <indexterm>
        <primary>EJB</primary>
        <secondary>Timer Service</secondary>
        <tertiary>uses</tertiary>
    </indexterm>
    
    <para>
        The timer service support scalendar based scheduling to schedule tasks to occur either once or repetitatively
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
               at specific particular date-times,                 
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                in specific intervals, or
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                at durations after the previous task has been completed.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <para>
        The EJB timer service primarily exists to support long-running business processes.
        Since session beans conceptually only last for the duration of a session, the
        timer service extends the usefulness of EJBs in situations such as the following:
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Time-based workflow steps</title>
                    <para>
                        For example, imposing a fine when a rented item (library book, video, car)
                        is not returned on time, or prompting a client to renew their support
                        contract a month before it expires.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Monitoring / Polling</title>
                    <para>
                        Periodically making sure that certain services, resources or devices are
                        available and responding.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Periodical reminders</title>
                    <para>
                        Sending a monthly reminder to users of a system to remind them to
                        update their password for security purposes.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>Initiating asynchronous / background tasks</title>
                    <para>
                        Since EJBs may not create or manage their own threads, the traditional mechanism
                        for this has always been to post a message on a message queue, to be processed
                        by a message-driven bean. Scheduling an immediate call-back via the timer service
                        provides a simple and light-weight alternative.
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <para>
        Scheduled timers are <emphasis>reliable</emphasis> and <emphasis>robust</emphasis> - they must survive application server
        crashes or machine restarts.
    </para>
    
    <para>
        Timers may be used in both <literal>Stateless Session Beans</literal> as well as <emphasis>Message-Driven Beans</emphasis>.
    </para>
    
</section>
