<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.xml.webServices.wsdl.simpleExample">
    
    <title>A simple example of a WSDL contract</title>
    
    
    
    <para>
        The following WSDL illustrates an elementary, <emphasis>WS-I Basic Profile</emphasis>
        compliant WSDL. Consider the following scenario:
    </para>
    <para>
        A small web service provides a single operation to search an inventory for items, based
        on a simple <literal>string</literal> of keywords. We want to provide a service which would
        be conceptually similar to the following Java-like pseudocode:
        <programlisting><![CDATA[
InventoryService
{
  public SearchResponse searchInventory( SearchRequest ) throws SearchFault;
}
        ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
    <para>
        The following WSDL describes the contract for our service, which is both sufficient to generate the
        framework (skeleton) of our server implementation, as well most of the client. The document is
        followed by a brief guide tot he five sections.
        <programlisting language="XML"><![CDATA[
]]><xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" href="src/inventoryExample.wsdl" parse="text"/><![CDATA[
        ]]></programlisting>
    </para>
    <para>
        <orderedlist>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>types</title>
                    <para>In this simple example, we define the schema types in-line, without
                    splitting between <emphasis>core</emphasis> (business) and <emphasis>service</emphasis>
                    (message definitions) domains. Note that we define <literal>elements</literal>
                    for the message types, as the WSDL will contain references to these.</para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>messages</title>
                    <para>We define three simple messages, a search request, search response,
                    and an error. These are without context, and may be re-used by several
                    operations.</para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>portType</title>
                    <para>An abstract, yet conceptually complete, definition of our
                    service, the one use case it supports (searchInventory), and what messages
                    are transferred (including faults)</para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>binding</title>
                    <para>A <emphasis>Document/Literal, SOAP</emphasis> binding 
                        to <emphasis>HTTP</emphasis> (the scheme which one should
                        almost exclusively use).
                    </para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <formalpara>
                    <title>service</title>
                    <para>Indicates the web address where an HTTP binding of the
                    inventory service can be found. Conversely, a web site on this
                    server most likely provided a link to this WSDL in the first place.</para>
                </formalpara>
            </listitem>
        </orderedlist>
    </para>
    
</section>