<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns25:section xmlns:ns25="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.transactions.distributedResources.distributedResources">

  <ns26:title xmlns:ns26="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Transactions across distributed resources</ns26:title>
  <ns27:para xmlns:ns27="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    One of the ACID properties of transactions is durability, i.e. that data which has been
    committed to a database are permanent -- at most they may be effectively reversed via a
    compensating transaction.
  </ns27:para>
  <ns28:para xmlns:ns28="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Durability is non-trivial for distributed transactions, i.e. if multiple datasources
    are involved in the same transaction. In that case you cannot complete a successful workflow
    by simply committing the modifications to the various datasources sequentially. Otherwise
    one may commit the modifications to one datasource and thereafter another datasource may
    fail to commit (perhaps due to a database crash or a network problem).
  </ns28:para>
  <ns29:para xmlns:ns29="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    The problem of committing transactions which span multiple datasources is tackled via a
    two-phase commit.
  </ns29:para>

  <ns30:section xmlns:ns30="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns31:title xmlns:ns31="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Two-Phase Commit</ns31:title>
    <ns32:para xmlns:ns32="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The first phase is a preparation phase where every element of the transaction (e.g.
      each database statement) is ready to commit. The transaction to be committed is written
      into a database log before the database acknowldges its readyness to commit. If all the
      resources are ready to commit the second phase of actually committing the transaction
      elements is launched.
    </ns32:para>
    <ns33:para xmlns:ns33="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Should one of the databases crash within this process, the committing of the data is
      performed upon restart -- the information of outstanding commits is obtained from the
      database log.
    </ns33:para>
  </ns30:section>
  
</ns25:section>