<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-2-4 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Introduction</title>




    <para> UML is a diagrammatic language. The requirements for a subject and design solution
        realizing these requirements are thus communicated through a collection of complementing
        diagrams. Each diagram provides an additional view through which additional information is
        fed into the requirements or design model. </para>
    <para> UML supports in total 13 types of diagrams. These diagrams can be grouped into different
        categories, each category focusing on a different aspect of the model. For example, class
        and composite structure diagrams are used to specify the structural aspects of the subject
        as well as the data structures of the information components exchanged between the role
        players. </para>
    <para> Similarly activity diagrams, sequence diagrams, state charts, communication and timing
        diagrams are all used to specify the dynamics of a process and how the organizational or
        system components collaborate to realize the business or system process. Two of these, the
        sequence and communication diagrams, focus on the messages exchanged in the process of the
        role players (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> system or organizational components) colllaborating to
        realize a use case. Activity diagrams and state charts, on the other hand, focus on the
        actual activities performed by these role players and the affect these activities have on
        their state. Timing diagrams put the message interchange patterns and the state in a formal
        timing framework. </para>

</section>
