<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-06-01 -->
<article xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <info>
    <title>Exam: Practical UML and URDAD</title>
    <subtitle>Competency exam</subtitle>  
    <!--    <xi:include
      href="../../../../../../resources/information/solms/resources/skills/FritzSolms/authorInfo.docbook"
      />-->
    <author><personname>Solms Training and Consulting</personname></author>
    <pubdate>17 September 2008</pubdate>
  </info>
  
<para>
  <orderedlist>
    <listitem>
      <para>
        A airline company wants to design the business processes for
        mananging flight bookings. Bookings can be made,
        paid for, cancelled and confirmed. The ailine company facilitates block bookings
        for multiple passangers. 
       <orderedlist>
            <listitem><para>
              Show some use cases provided by a airline company and use use case
              abstraction to define the scope of the airline's operations.
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
              Specify the stakeholder requirements for the <emphasis>make booking</emphasis> use
              case:
              <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                  Use a use case diagram to show the user, service provider(s) and, if relevant,
                  observer(s) for the use case. Also show the optional and mandatory functional requirements of
                  the stake holders. 
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                  Use a sequence diagram to show a typical usage scenario.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                  Use an activity diagram to show the user work flow in general.
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                  Use class diagrams to show the data objects exchanged between the airline and the
                  actors of this use case.
                </para></listitem>
              </itemizedlist>
            </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            Follow the URDAD methodology using the UML tool of your choice to do the
             business process design of this use case and 
	    do 1 iteration starting
            with responsibility identification and allocation to role players. Show the business
            process for the current level of granularity using a sequence and an activity diagram.
            Extract the collaboration context which shows the message paths required between these
            role players. 
          </para></listitem>
          <listitem><para>
            Select one of the services of the current level of granularity for the use case for
            the next level of granularity and start off the next cycle doing the responsibility 
            identification and allocation steps for the next level of granularity.
          </para></listitem>
      </orderedlist>
    </para></listitem>
  </orderedlist>
</para>
</article>
