<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Linux Desktops</title>
    <para>
        A desktop provides desktop configuration and management tools as well as desktop utilities.
    </para>
    <para>
        The common Linux desktops are KDE, Gnome, Xfce and CDE.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>KDE</title>
        <para>
            This is the biggest, most resource hungry and in some ways most resource intensive desktop environment for Linux
            requiring reasonable memory and processing resources. It uses its own window manager, <emphasis>kwin</emphasis>.
        </para>
        <para>
            KDE is very powerful and configurable and provides a large collection of integrated desktop applications including its own office suite,
            mail client, browser, chat clients, editor, games, graphics and media applications, and many others.
        </para>
        <para>
            KDE is the default desktop environment for many distributions including OpenSuse, Mandriva and Mint.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Gnome</title>
        <para>
            Gnome is not quite as resource intensive as KDE but is still still provides a large number of desktop application.
            It is simple and easy to use with good defaults.
            The default window manager for Gnome is <emphasis>Metacity</emphasis>, but Gnome is less
            strongly locked into an underlying window manager enabling users to easily replace the default window manager
            with a window manager of their choice.            
        </para>
        <para>
            Gnome is the default desktop for most Ubuntu-based distributions, Redhat and others.
        </para>
    </section>

    <section>
        <title>Xfce</title>
        <para>
            Xfce is a much more light-weight, faster and less resource demanding desktop environment which provides most of the
            functionality required by average users.
        </para>
    </section>
</section> 