<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>

<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    
    <title> Gentoo </title>
    <para>
        Gentoo is a high-performance, extremely flexible distribution which facilitates the building of a system from source
        and provides a very effective package and dependency management system, portage. Portage is a package management
        system which enables you to build any application which is in the portage tree from source, effectively managing any
        recursive dependencies. 
    </para>
    <para>
        Gentoo is no longer released in different versions. The portage tree evolves continuously in a controlled way.
        Thus, if you start building a Gentoo machine today, you are using the latest packages which have been cleared.
        A Gentoo system is usually kept up to date by regulaly <emphasis>emergeing the world</emphasis>.
    </para>
    <para>
        A Gentoo system is thus fully hand-built. One partitions the disks, configures and compiles the kernel and installs
        from source only those package which provide the functionality one requires together with their dependencies.
        Gentoo does not prescribe which kernel is used, what you using as your logging manager, what shell environment
        you are using, which window manager you are using or anything for that matter. Each Gentoo installation ends
        up being unique - the only thing which two installations will have to have in common is that they use Portage
        as package manager.        
        <note><para>
            Gentoo is sometimes called a meta-distribution because of its extreme flexibility. This notion is further
            strengthened with Gentoo not releasing any versions of their "meta-distributions".
        </para></note>
    </para>
    <para>
        Because of its flexibility and because
        it is built from source, Gentoo is one of the few distributions which supports virtually any platform including
        x86, x86-64, IA-64, PA-RISC, PowerPC, PowerPC 970, SPARC  64-bit, DEC Alpha, MIPS,  PS3 Cell Processor,  
        System Z/s390,  ARM,  and SuperH.
    </para>
    <para>
        Gentoo packages undergo extensive testing before they are opened for general use. The environment provides
        mechanisms to use releases of software packages which have not yet passed the rigerous testing process.
    </para>
    <para>
        The strengths of Gentoo are
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                everything is compiled and optimized for the target architecture from source,
                <note><para>
                    A few selected, very large packages like <emphasis>OpenOffice</emphasis>,
                    <emphasis>Mozilla Firefox</emphasis> and <emphasis>Mozilla Thunderbird</emphasis>
                    are also available to be installed from binary code.
                </para></note>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                a highly configurable, yet very minimal environment where you choose explicitly everything which should be installed,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                the ease with which a Gentoo based system can continuously be kept up to date.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    <para>
        This is, however not the distribution of choice for people who are not very computer literate. The initial installation of a typical
        desktop takes more than a day (because of long compilation times) and explicit manual configuration of many aspects of the
        operating system and, due to its extreme flexibility and adaptability, may result at times in some configuration problems
        which need to be fixed manually.
    </para>
    <para>
        Gentoo is, however, an ideal platform for learning Linux.
    </para>
</section>
