<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns7130:section xmlns:ns7130="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.lang.rtti.javaReflectionApi.javaReflectionApi">
    
    <ns7131:title xmlns:ns7131="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Java's Reflection API</ns7131:title>

<ns7132:para xmlns:ns7132="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">When using run-time type identification you really have to know the class
at compile tiome before you can do anything useful. For example, we had to
know that <ns7133:emphasis xmlns:ns7133="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Person</ns7133:emphasis> and <ns7134:emphasis xmlns:ns7134="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Employee</ns7134:emphasis> had <ns7135:emphasis xmlns:ns7135="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">save()</ns7135:emphasis> and
<ns7136:emphasis xmlns:ns7136="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">load()</ns7136:emphasis> methods and similarly we had to know that <ns7137:emphasis xmlns:ns7137="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">MyClass</ns7137:emphasis>
had a <ns7138:emphasis xmlns:ns7138="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">doMySpecialThing()</ns7138:emphasis> method.</ns7132:para>

<ns7139:para xmlns:ns7139="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">However, in some cases you might have no clue about the classes you will
be working with. This is typically the case when you are writing tools
like debuggers, profilers or GUI builders. Also the internet centric
applications of today are themselves to the world, having run-time exposure
to a lot of classes which you did not know about at compile-time.</ns7139:para>

<ns7140:para xmlns:ns7140="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">For this purpose Java's reflection API is very useful. It is again
centered around the class <ns7141:emphasis xmlns:ns7141="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Class</ns7141:emphasis> which has methods for querying
constructors, methods and attributes (in the sense of data fields) of
a class. Methods, in turn can be further queried for their arguments,
return value and any exceptions they might throw.</ns7140:para>

<ns7142:para xmlns:ns7142="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">The following little application takes as command line argument the
name of a class and it lists the public attributes, constructors and
methods of the class.
<ns7143:programlisting xmlns:ns7143="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
<xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" parse="text" href="../source/Reflect.java"/>
</ns7143:programlisting>
</ns7142:para>
<ns7144:para xmlns:ns7144="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">If we run the application on the <ns7145:emphasis xmlns:ns7145="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Employee</ns7145:emphasis> class we obtain the
following output:

<ns7146:programlisting xmlns:ns7146="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
java Reflect Employee

Constructors =
public Employee(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,double)
public Employee(java.lang.String,java.lang.String,double,java.lang.String)

Methods =
public boolean java.lang.Object.equals(java.lang.Object)
public void Employee.finalize() throws java.lang.Throwable
public final native java.lang.Class java.lang.Object.getClass()
public native int java.lang.Object.hashCode()
public final native void java.lang.Object.notify()
public final native void java.lang.Object.notifyAll()
public java.lang.String Employee.toString()
public final void java.lang.Object.wait() throws java.lang.InterruptedException
public final native void java.lang.Object.wait(long) throws java.lang.InterruptedException
public final void java.lang.Object.wait(long,int) throws java.lang.InterruptedException
public java.lang.String Person.getIdNumber()
public java.lang.String Person.getName()
public java.lang.String Employee.getJobDecription()
public double Employee.getSalary()
</ns7146:programlisting>
</ns7144:para>
<ns7147:para xmlns:ns7147="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Note that all the methods are listed, those defined in <ns7148:emphasis xmlns:ns7148="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Employee</ns7148:emphasis>, those
inherited from <ns7149:emphasis xmlns:ns7149="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Person</ns7149:emphasis> and those inherited from <ns7150:emphasis xmlns:ns7150="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" role="verb">Object</ns7150:emphasis>.
</ns7147:para>
    
    <xi:include xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" href="objectStateReflectionAndDynamicMethodInvocation.docbook"/>
    
</ns7130:section>