<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- Author: Fritz Solms -->
<section  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" 
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Accessibility</title>
    <para>
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>Remote machine access</title>
                <para>
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            Remote shell access via SSH (secure shells) is the default approach to accessing Linux machines remotely through
                            a remote command shell which enforces authentication and encryption. The commonly used implementation of
                            SSH servers is OpenSSH.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            FreeNX, a GPL implementation of the NX protocol, a very efficient protocol for communicating with X which can be
                            hosted on top of SSH providing remote access to your desktop which is suitable even for dial up connections.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            VNC clients like RealVNC, TightVNC, Vnc4 use a more standard and platform independent, but less efficient
                            RFB protocol for accessing window sessions remotely. KDE and Gnome desktop sharing is also based on VNC.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            XDMCP connections which are of limited use as they do not use a secure protocol, but might still be, at times,
                            useful to have.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            TelNet (developed in 1969) servers provide a simple, less secure alternative to ssh.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            Linux supports AppleTalk which provides apple machines access to Linux and vice versa.
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
            
            <listitem><formalpara>
                <title>File sharing</title>
                <para>
                    <itemizedlist>
                        <listitem><para>
                            NFS, the Network File System which was developed by Sun is Linuxe's preferred native file sharing environment. It is secure
                            and provides good performance.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            SCP, the <literal>secure copy</literal> provides a secure command-line based copy facility using the SSH protocol.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            Linux supports a range of FTP servers and clients.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            File sharing with Windows machines is supported via Samba.
                        </para></listitem>
                        <listitem><para>
                            Linux supports file sharing with Apple machines via NetaTalk (supported at kernel level).
                        </para></listitem>
                    </itemizedlist>
                </para>
            </formalpara></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>        
    </para>
</section>    