<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns3740:section xmlns:ns3740="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.organizational.capabilityDrivenArchitecture.introduction.introduction">
  <ns3741:title xmlns:ns3741="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Introduction</ns3741:title>
  <ns3742:para xmlns:ns3742="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Capability driven architecture starts from the premise that the architecture of an
    organization should be designed such that it provides a suitable infrastructure within which
    it can realize its mission, <ns3743:abbrev xmlns:ns3743="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns3743:abbrev> the architecture of an
    organization should thus be aligned with the vision of the organization. In particular the architectural
    infrastructure and architectural strategies should realize the capabilities through which the
    organization aims to differentiate itself from its competitors.
  </ns3742:para>
  <ns3744:para xmlns:ns3744="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    This premise has already been envisaged by  <ns3745:xref xmlns:ns3745="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" linkend="King-1995"/> and to some extend
    <ns3746:xref xmlns:ns3746="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" linkend="Ashmore-Henson-Chancellor-Nelson-2004"/>. 
    <ns3747:emphasis xmlns:ns3747="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Capability Driven Architecture</ns3747:emphasis>, CDA, aims to put this vision into
    practice by providing a more scientific framework within which one defines the organizational
    infrastructure and architectural strategies to be applied across the business processes which
    are deployed within this infrastructure.
  </ns3744:para>
  
  <ns3748:section xmlns:ns3748="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns3749:title xmlns:ns3749="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Concepts from software architecture</ns3749:title>
    <ns3750:para xmlns:ns3750="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Conceptually a lot of this work has been based on the concepts introduced by Bass, Clements
      and Kazman in their book <ns3751:quote xmlns:ns3751="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns3752:emphasis xmlns:ns3752="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Software architecture in practice</ns3752:emphasis></ns3751:quote>
      <ns3753:xref xmlns:ns3753="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" linkend="Bass-Clements-Kazman-2003"/>. Their work provides the conceptual basis for
      modern systems architecture.
    </ns3750:para>
    <ns3754:para xmlns:ns3754="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      They argue that the architecture of a software system should be determined by the desired
      quality attributes of the system, <ns3755:abbrev xmlns:ns3755="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns3755:abbrev> that the architecture of a software
      system can be designed and assessed on the basis of the required quality attributes of the
      system. 
    </ns3754:para>
    <ns3756:para xmlns:ns3756="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Here these same concepts are applied to organizational architecture. The quality attributes of
      an organization are the capabilities of the organization. These capabilities should not have
      to be designed into each and every business process. Instead, a business process deployed
      within the organization will acquire the organization's capabilities through its architecture.
    </ns3756:para>
  </ns3748:section>
  
  <ns3757:section xmlns:ns3757="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns3758:title xmlns:ns3758="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Architecture and business processes can vary independently</ns3758:title>
    <ns3759:para xmlns:ns3759="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Furthermore, business process design and architecture can vary independently. One can define
      an organization's architecture from its mission statement without requiring detailed
      information about the business processes realizing the organization's services. Similarly, the
      conceptual business processes can be designed without having to know the architecture within
      which they will be deployed (or even whether the business process steps will be executed
      manually or within a system).
    </ns3759:para>
    <ns3760:para xmlns:ns3760="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Ultimately, the business processes must be deployed/implemented within the organization's
      architecture. This may require mapping onto manual processes, mapping onto system
      services or mapping across manual and system processes where some processing steps 
      are done manually and others are done by certain systems.
    </ns3760:para>
    <ns3761:para xmlns:ns3761="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      A change in the desired capabilities of an organization may necessitate a change in the
      architecture of the organization (and potentially its systems). This may require that the
      mapping of the conceptual business process onto organizational and system architectures will
      have to be redone. The conceptual, platform independent business process, however, need not
      change.
    </ns3761:para>
  </ns3757:section>
  
  <ns3762:section xmlns:ns3762="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns3763:title xmlns:ns3763="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Aligning organizational and system architecture</ns3763:title>
    <ns3764:para xmlns:ns3764="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Many organizations rely heavily on systems for the execution of their business processes. The
      system architecture(s) must be aligned with the organizational architecture,
      <ns3765:abbrev xmlns:ns3765="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns3765:abbrev> must support the capabilities of the organization. It would be of no use
      if the organizational architecture had been designed to cater for large demand (scalability),
      while the systems supporting the business processes are themselves not scalable.
    </ns3764:para>
  </ns3762:section>
  
</ns3740:section>