<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>What is project management?</title>
    <para> 
        According to the PMBOK: <blockquote>
            <para>
                <emphasis> Project management is the application of knowledge, skills, tools and
                    techniques to project activities in order to meet or exceed stake holder needs
                    and expectations. </emphasis>
            </para>
        </blockquote>
        <note>
            <para> The PMBOK differentiates between stake holder <emphasis>needs as the identified
                    requirements</emphasis> from the stake holder <emphasis>expectations which are
                    the unidentified requirements</emphasis> and points out that both need to be met
                to achieve client satisfaction. </para>
        </note>
    </para>

    <para> Meeting stakeholder needs and expectations requires that project management
            <emphasis>trade-off competing demands</emphasis> against each other. The core competing
        demands include <itemizedlist>
            <listitem>
                <para> scope, time, cost and quality, </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> stake holders with different needs and expectation, and </para>
            </listitem>
            <listitem>
                <para> identified needs and unidentified expectations. </para>
            </listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>

    <section>
        <title>General versus project management</title>
        <para> Project management does share some common responsibilities with general management
            including planning, controlling activities, .... However, in many ways project
            management is very different from general management. Some of these differences are:
            differences: <itemizedlist>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Management is focused on controlling and optimizing continuous
                        operations. Project management, on the other hand is focused on achieving a
                        particular goal. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Management manages over time the same team. The team of people typically
                        changes from project to project. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> The challenges of normal management will continuously evolve. Those of
                        project management may change radically from project to project. </para>
                </listitem>
                <listitem>
                    <para> Management reports to the same entity over time. Project management has
                        to, from project to project, meat the requirements of different clients.
                    </para>
                </listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
    </section>
</section>
