<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0b5/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--DOCTYPE section SYSTEM "file:/usr/share/sgml/db42xml/docbookx.dtd"--><ns1386:section xmlns:ns1386="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.platforms.linux.cygwin.introduction">

    <ns1387:title xmlns:ns1387="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Introduction</ns1387:title>
    <ns1388:para xmlns:ns1388="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
     You might just like to have a decent command prompt. Or you have one of various other reasons why you would 
     prefer to use a *nix emulator on top of another system like for example MS windows. There are tools like VMWare 
    and Win4lin to run multiple Operating Systems on the same machine, but unfortunately they are not open source
    and strictly propriety. Then there's shells like Cygwin.
    </ns1388:para>
    
    <ns1389:para xmlns:ns1389="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Cygwin upgrades a win32 command prompt to a fully functional command prompt. It is:
    <ns1390:itemizedlist xmlns:ns1390="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns1391:listitem xmlns:ns1391="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            <ns1392:para xmlns:ns1392="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">A Unix library that allows for Unix system calls in a win32 environment</ns1392:para>
        </ns1391:listitem>
        <ns1393:listitem xmlns:ns1393="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            <ns1394:para xmlns:ns1394="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Win32 ports of the GNU development tools as well as the majority of other GNU
                packages.</ns1394:para>
        </ns1393:listitem>
    </ns1390:itemizedlist>
    Amongst the software supported by Cygwin are the various Unix shells as well as other applications
    from packages like X-Windows and KDE to an enteprise database like Postgresql.
    </ns1389:para>
    <ns1395:para xmlns:ns1395="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Besides all these things, it could also be a way to pretend youre working on linux while you
        still have a win32 system running beneath. Just run XFree86 with your favourite window
    manager. </ns1395:para>
    
</ns1386:section>