<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-07-01 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Principles of space based architectures</title>
    <para>
        The core principles of space based architectures are
        <indexterm><primary>services based architecture</primary><secondary>principles of</secondary></indexterm>
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                all data needs to be maintained in reliable, high-performance memory,
                <indexterm><primary>reliability</primary></indexterm>
                <indexterm><primary>performance</primary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                condense messaging and data layers into one,
                <indexterm><primary>messaging</primary><secondary>layer</secondary></indexterm>
                <indexterm><primary>data</primary><secondary>layer</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                processes defined in the form of loosely coupled event processors that interact and share data
                <indexterm><primary>loose coupling</primary></indexterm>
                <indexterm><primary>event</primary><secondary>processors</secondary></indexterm>
                through the space,
                <indexterm><primary>space</primary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                everything including data, messaging and business logic is co-located.
                <indexterm><primary>data</primary></indexterm>
                <indexterm><primary>messaging</primary></indexterm>
                <indexterm><primary>business</primary><secondary>logic</secondary></indexterm>
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>High-performance, reliable memory</title>
        <para>
            <indexterm><primary>memory</primary><secondary>reliable</secondary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>memory</primary><secondary>performance</secondary></indexterm>
            <indexterm><primary>memory</primary><secondary>durable</secondary></indexterm>
            Data is maintained within the space which provides durable and reliable access to memory.
            The space will use strategies through which it will ensure the rapid availability of information
            <indexterm><primary>strategy</primary></indexterm>
            across time and in the context of component failures.
            <indexterm><primary>fail-safe</primary></indexterm>
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Condensing messaging and data layers into one</title>
        <para>
            Messaging is just a specific way of communication. Messages are treated like any other data objects
            which are managed within the space. The space will provide high-performance, reliable and
            durable access to messages as it provides to any other data.
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Processes through loosely coupled event processors</title>
        <para>
            The logic around processes (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> business processes) is not centralized. Instead
            the processes are defined collaboratively and in a loosely coupled way by defining the event processors,
            the events they extract from space and the events they produce and put into space.
        </para>
        <para>
            This provides a framework where business analysts implicitly collaborate to define
            business processes in an implicitly way.
        </para>
    </section>    
    
    <section>
        <title>Co-locate everything</title>
        <para>
            The aim of SBA is to provide a highly scalable and reliable environment for high performance processing.
            To this end all  data (including messaging) and all event processors through which the business logic
            is specified are required to be cohosted (replicted, distributed and synchronized).
        </para>
    </section>    
</section>
