<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><!--Authored by mailto:fritz@solms.co.za on 2007-3-26 -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Scope definition</title>
    <para>
        The purpose of scope definition is to obtain and document a solid understanding of the scope 
        of the project scope.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Scope definition across the project life cycle</title>
        <para>
            During the <emphasis>project initiation phase</emphasis>, project management must coordinate the
            process of defining a high level understanding of the project scope. The result of this is a
            <emphasis>preliminary scope statement</emphasis>.
        </para>
        <para>
            The understanding of the scope is deepened during the <emphasis>project planning phase</emphasis>.
            During this phase the stake holder needs, wants and expectations are converted into a requirements specification.
            The requirements specification should preferably be a set of testable use case contracts around the functionality
            the client requires from the resultant work product.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Outputs</title>
        <para>
            The core output of the scope definition activity is, according to the PMBOK, a 
            <emphasis>project scope statement</emphasis> which contains the project deliverables
            as well as the current understanding of the work required to realize these deliverables. 
            <note><para>
                This information is typically split across multiple documents.
            </para></note>
        </para>
        
        <section>
            <title>Purpose of the project scope statement</title>
            <para>
                The project scope statement is critical for the success of a project. It is required for the
                following purposes
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        To document a common understanding of the project scope across all stake holders.         
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        To provide the project team high level guidance throughout the life span of the project.
                        A solid scope definition enables solid planning, execution, control and assessment of the project.
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        To enable the project team to assess whether change requests fall within the scope of the
                        project or not.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Content of the project scope statement</title>
            <para>
                According to the PMBOK, the scope management statement should contain the following:
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>The project objectives</title>
                        <para>
                            This is a list of measurable success criteria for the project. Each success criteria should
                            have an absolute or relative value and should hence be measurable. The project
                            objectives will contain 
                            <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    business objectives,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    cost and schedule targets, and
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    quality targets.
                                </para></listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                            The quality targets include non-functional requirements like scalability, reliability, security,
                            auditability, performance, maintainability, usability, integrability, ....
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Product scope description and project requirements</title>
                        <para>
                            This defines the scope of the outputs of the project. It will include the high level and concrete
                            use cases (user services) which the work product must provide. In addition it will contain for
                            each use case the functional requirements. Initially this will only include the high level responsibilities
                            which need to be addressed when realizing a use case, but as the requirements are refined the detailed
                            use case requirements will be added.
                            <note><para>
                                The detailed use case requirements are usually elicited and specified iteratively in the context
                                of iterative development processes.
                            </para></note>
                            as well as the core functional requirements for the
                            functional or use case requirements
                            as well as 
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Project boundaries</title>
                        <para>
                            In order to define the scope (project boundary) more clearly, one not only specifies what is in
                            scope, but also what is excluded from the project. Any feature which is not in scope, but which any
                            stake holder could potentially assume to be within scope, should be included in this list of exclusions.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Project deliverables</title>
                        <para>
                            This specifies any deliverables including
                            <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    the work product itself,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    any documentation required around the work product,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    potentially a testing framework for the work product, and
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    any communication required from project management.
                                </para></listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Project acceptance criteria</title>
                        <para>
                            This should discuss the criteria used to assess whether the project is a success and whether the
                            outputs are acceptable and potentially the process which will be used to assess the success
                            criteria.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Project constraints</title>
                        <para>
                            These are a list of project constraints which need to be met by the project. They may include
                            <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    budget constraints,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    schedule constraints (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> imposed dates for certain milestones),
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    technology constraints,
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    legal constraints and others.
                                </para></listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Project assumptions</title>
                        <para>
                            This includes a list of assumptions which could affect the project scope. If any of the assumptions
                            are found not to hold, the impact needs to be assessed, the cost estimated and the feasibility of the 
                            project as a whole needs to be re-assessed.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Dependencies</title>
                        <para>
                            This is a list of dependencies of the project on other activities including
                            <itemizedlist>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    dependencies on business decisions
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    dependencies on outputs of other projects.
                                </para></listitem>
                                <listitem><para>
                                    dependencies on resources to be released from other projects.
                                </para></listitem>
                            </itemizedlist>
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Optional axillary information for the project scope statement</title>
            <para>
                In addition to the information which directly defines or affects the project scope, the
                project scope statement often also absorbs some axillary information obtained from
                other project management activities including
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>The initial project organization</title>
                        <para>
                            This identifies the project stake holders as well as the initial members of the project
                            team.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Initial risk definition</title>
                        <para>
                            This lists the risks which are known up-front.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Schedule milestones</title>
                        <para>
                            Both, the customer and the project team can identify milestones and specify target dates for these
                            milestones.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Initial cost estimate</title>
                        <para>
                            An initial, usually rough cost estimate which will be iteratively refined.
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                            <title>Project configuration management requirements</title>
                            <para>
                                This specifies the level of configuration management and change control which needs to be in place
                                for the project.
                            </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Project specification</title>
                        <para>
                            This includes any formal specifications the project needs to comply to (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> ISO 9000). 
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                    <listitem><formalpara>
                        <title>Approval requirements</title>
                        <para>
                            This specifies the approval requirements applying either to the project as a whole or to certain elements
                            of the project like the project objectives, deliverables, outputs, cost, ...
                        </para>
                    </formalpara></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Documents typically generated by the scope definition activity</title>
        <para>
            Typically the outputs of scope definition is split into two main documents including
            <itemizedlist>
                <listitem><para>
                    a vision and scope document (sometimes called a project charter), and
                </para></listitem>
                <listitem><para>
                    the detailed requirements specifications around each use case.
                </para></listitem>
            </itemizedlist>
        </para>
        
        <section>
            <title>Vision and scope document</title>
            <para>
                The vision and scope document is a document which is usually created during project initiation.
                Although the document may go through multiple versions, it is not an iterative document which
                is updated in the context of iterative development processes with each new iteration. 
            </para>
            
            <para>
                Typically the vision and scope document contains
                <itemizedlist>
                    <listitem><para>
                        the problem statement, and
                    </para></listitem>
                    <listitem><para>
                        a high level vision of the solution.
                    </para></listitem>
                </itemizedlist>
                
            </para>
        </section>
    
        <section>
            <title>The requirements specification document</title>
            <para>
                The requirements specification document contains the detailed functional and non-functional requirements per use case.
                This document is typically updated iteratively as use case for use case is added in the context of iterative development.
            </para>
        </section>
    </section>


</section>    