<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
  xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
    xml:id="components.technologies.www.http.response.response">
    <title>HTTP Response</title>
  <indexterm>
    <primary>HTTP</primary>
    <secondary>response</secondary>
  </indexterm>
    <para>
        Once a request has been received by the server, it sends back a response
        message indicating the <emphasis>status</emphasis> of the request, and 
      any additional information describing the response (if any).
        Like HTTP requests, HTTP response messages have two areas: A list of headers (similar to request headers) an optionally
        a response body, which contains the data (resources) that the client requested.
    </para>
    <para>The following are common headers returned by an HTTP response:</para>
    <section>
        <title>Protocol</title>
        <para>
            Version of the HTTP protocol the server will be using to communicate: Currently
            <literal>HTTP/1.0</literal> or <literal>HTTP/1.1</literal>.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>HTTP Status Code</title>
        <para>
            Directly following the protocol version, an HTTP status code describes, amongst others,
            the success / failure of the request. It can also contain various other messages, such
            as indication of move, redirection, invalid client request, etc.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Last Modified Date</title>
        <para> 
            The Last-Modified field indicates the date and time at which the
            server believes the requested resource was last modified. This proves to be very useful
            in assisting web browsers to perform reliable caching of data, e.g. to not request
            unmodified data more than once.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Content-Length</title>
        <para>
            The number of bytes in the body (the size of the requested resource, which does not
            include the size of the header and status fields.
        </para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Content-Type</title>
        <para> The MIME-type of the data in the body, such as application/xml or image/gif.</para>
    </section>
    <section>
        <title>Expiration</title>
        <para> Specifies the date on which this content served is considered as expired. This is
            used by browser in Cache Control. Often a immediate expiry date is set to indicate that
            the browser should not cache the response. </para>
    </section>
  <section>
    <title>Cookie</title>
    <para>
      Specifies one or more name/value pairs of information which the
      client should store locally, and reproduce on all subsequent
      requests to the same host, until the indicated expiry date is
      reached.
    </para>
  </section>
    <section>
        <title>Example HTTP responses:</title>
<programlisting><![CDATA[
HTTP/1.1 200 OK 
Date: Wed, 23 Jul 2003 08:23:49 GMT 
Server: Apache/1.3.20 (Unix) (Red-Hat/Linux) mod_python/2.7.6
Last-Modified: Wed, 16 Jan 2002 09:04:05 GMT
Content-Length: 130 
Connection: close 
Content-Type: text/xml 
      
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<content>
    <moreContent useful="no"/>
    <otherContent>
        This is just an illustration of 
        arbitrary requested data.
    </otherContent>
</content>
]]></programlisting>

<para>
    Another example of a successful request:
</para>
<programlisting><![CDATA[
HTTP/1.1 200 OK 
Date: Wed, 23 Jul 2003 08:23:50 GMT 
Server: Apache/1.3.20 (Unix) (Red-Hat/Linux) mod_python/2.7.6 
Last-Modified: Fri, 16 Nov 2001 07:27:05 GMT
Content-Length: 72187
Connection: close 
Content-Type: image/jpeg 

. . . [binary data] . . . 
]]></programlisting>

<para>
    Example response for a resource that does not exist at the requested location:
    (The message body is optional, but often included to present a custom
    error page to the user)
</para>
<programlisting><![CDATA[
HTTP/1.1 404 NOT FOUND 
Date: Wed, 23 Jul 2003 08:29:50 GMT 
Server: Apache/1.3.20 (Unix) (Red-Hat/Linux) mod_python/2.7.6 
Content-Length: 94
Connection: close 
Content-Type: text/plain

The resource you requested cannot be found, please 
retry or notify your system administrator.
]]></programlisting>
    </section>
    
    <!-- HTTP Response Codes -->
    <xi:include href="responseCodes.docbook"/>
    
</section>
