<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!-- author Fritz Solms -->
<section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
    xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
    <title>Remote repositories</title>
    <para>
        The remote repositories on uses typically include
        <itemizedlist>
            <listitem><para>
                the central Maven repository containing the core maven plugins and
                globally published maven projects,
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                an internal remote repository where one publishes one's internal projects across
                the organization, or
            </para></listitem>
            <listitem><para>
                group/organization specific repositories which publish their projects seperately
                from the central Maven repository.
            </para></listitem>
        </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
    <para>
        There is no structural difference between internal and external remote repositories. Hence
        the same logic is used to process them and they can be synchronized. Typically the central
        repository is very large and one does not usually want to synchronize the full repository.
    </para>
    
    <section>
        <title>Accessing remote repositories</title>
        <para>
            Files can be retrieved from remote repositories either via the HTTP or via a mechanism like scp using the 
            <literal>file://URL</literal> protocol. In the former case the directory needs to be, of course, served
            by the web server. Security can be done via HTTPS or simply by restricting the user access
            to the directory.
        </para>
        <para>
            Files can be uploaded to a repository using scp, ftp or other file copy mechanisms.
        </para>
    </section>
    
    <section>
        <title>Specifying the location of remote repositories</title>
        <para>
            The location of the official central Maven artifact and plugin repositories are specified in the Super-POM:
            <programlisting><![CDATA[
<project>
    <modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
    <name>defaultProject</name>
    
    <repositories>
        <repository>
            <id>central</id>
            <name>Maven Repository Switchboard</name>
            <layout>default</layout>
            <url>http://repo1.maven,org/maven2</url>
            <snapshots><enabled>false</enabled></snapshots>
        </repository
    </repositories>
    
    <pluginRepositories>
        <pluginRepository>
            <id>central</id>
            <name>Maven Plugin Repository</name>
            <url>http://repo1.maven,org/maven2</url>
            <layout>default</layout>
            <snapshots><enabled>false</enabled></snapshots>
        </pluginRepository>
    </pluginRepositories>    
            
    ...
</project>    
]]></programlisting>
        </para>
        <para>
            You can add further repository and plugin repository specifications in either the POM for your project or in
            a common parent POM for your projects.
        </para>
    </section>
</section>    