<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<ns3995:section xmlns:ns3995="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.organizational.introduction.introduction">
  <ns3996:title xmlns:ns3996="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Capability Driven Architecture (CDA): Core concepts and overview</ns3996:title>
  
  
  <ns3997:para xmlns:ns3997="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    Organization's which provide similar service offerings compete on account of their
    capabilities.
  </ns3997:para>
  
  <ns3998:section xmlns:ns3998="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns3999:title xmlns:ns3999="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">What is the architecture of an organization?</ns3999:title>
    <ns4000:para xmlns:ns4000="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The architecture of an organization is the
      <ns4001:itemizedlist xmlns:ns4001="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns4002:listitem xmlns:ns4002="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4003:para xmlns:ns4003="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          core infrastructure within which the business processes realizing the client services are
          deployed, together with
        </ns4003:para></ns4002:listitem>
        <ns4004:listitem xmlns:ns4004="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4005:para xmlns:ns4005="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          core strategies applied across business processes
        </ns4005:para></ns4004:listitem>
      </ns4001:itemizedlist>
    </ns4000:para>
  </ns3998:section>
  
  <ns4006:section xmlns:ns4006="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
    <ns4007:title xmlns:ns4007="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">What are the capabilities of an organization?</ns4007:title>
    <ns4008:para xmlns:ns4008="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      The capabilities of an organization refer to the ability of an organization to
      do their business with certain characteristics or qualities. A capability does not change what
      the organization delivers when realizing a service, but the quality of service itself.
      Examples of capabilities include the ability to 
    <ns4009:itemizedlist xmlns:ns4009="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns4010:listitem xmlns:ns4010="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4011:para xmlns:ns4011="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        offer a services or products at <ns4012:emphasis xmlns:ns4012="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">low cost</ns4012:emphasis>,
      </ns4011:para></ns4010:listitem>
      <ns4013:listitem xmlns:ns4013="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4014:para xmlns:ns4014="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        render services very rapidly (<ns4015:emphasis xmlns:ns4015="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">performance</ns4015:emphasis>),
      </ns4014:para></ns4013:listitem>
      <ns4016:listitem xmlns:ns4016="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4017:para xmlns:ns4017="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns4018:emphasis xmlns:ns4018="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">reliability</ns4018:emphasis>,
      </ns4017:para></ns4016:listitem>
      <ns4019:listitem xmlns:ns4019="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4020:para xmlns:ns4020="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        operate in an environment of fluctuating or changing demand
        (<ns4021:emphasis xmlns:ns4021="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">scaleability</ns4021:emphasis>),
      </ns4020:para></ns4019:listitem>
      <ns4022:listitem xmlns:ns4022="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4023:para xmlns:ns4023="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        offer high <ns4024:emphasis xmlns:ns4024="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">quality</ns4024:emphasis> services or products,
      </ns4023:para></ns4022:listitem>
      <ns4025:listitem xmlns:ns4025="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4026:para xmlns:ns4026="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        to customize products or services to their customers
        needs (<ns4027:emphasis xmlns:ns4027="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">customizability</ns4027:emphasis>),
      </ns4026:para></ns4025:listitem>
      <ns4028:listitem xmlns:ns4028="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"><ns4029:para xmlns:ns4029="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        offer services across geographical location or across time
        (<ns4030:emphasis xmlns:ns4030="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">availability</ns4030:emphasis>)
      </ns4029:para></ns4028:listitem>
    </ns4009:itemizedlist>
    </ns4008:para>
    <ns4031:para xmlns:ns4031="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      An organization's architecture must be such that it enables an organization to realize it's
      capabilities across the services it offers. These
      capabilities and qualities should be consistent with the organziation's vision statement.
    </ns4031:para>
  </ns4006:section>
  
   <ns4032:section xmlns:ns4032="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
     <ns4033:title xmlns:ns4033="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Purpose and background to capability driven organizational architecture</ns4033:title>
     <ns4034:para xmlns:ns4034="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
       The organizational architecture provides the framework within which the business processes are deployed.
       It ensures the organization's core capabilities are consistently realized
       across the various business processes deployed within the architecture.
     </ns4034:para>
     <ns4035:para xmlns:ns4035="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
       A number of authors have looked at organizational architecture (see, for example
       <ns4036:xref xmlns:ns4036="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" linkend="Ashmore-Henson-Chancellor-Nelson-2004"/>, 
       <ns4037:xref xmlns:ns4037="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" linkend="Brickley-Smith-Zimmermann-2001"/>, 
       <ns4038:xref xmlns:ns4038="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" linkend="Nadler-Gerstein-Shaw-1992"/>,
       <ns4039:xref xmlns:ns4039="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" linkend="Galbraith-Downy-Kates-2001"/>, 
       <ns4040:xref xmlns:ns4040="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" linkend="Ethiraj-Levinthal-2004"/>.
       Some like  <ns4041:xref xmlns:ns4041="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" linkend="King-1995"/> and to some extend
       <ns4042:xref xmlns:ns4042="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" linkend="Ashmore-Henson-Chancellor-Nelson-2004"/> 
       suggested that organizational architecture should be driven by the organization's 
       strategic vision and should realize the organization's capabilities. 
     </ns4035:para>
     <ns4043:para xmlns:ns4043="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
       Capability driven organizational architecture aims to put this vision into practice. The approach starts by looking at an organization's
       vision in order to identify its core quality goals. Next one investigates a suitable architectural foundation 
       by looking at how one can combine proven architectural patterns to define the course-grained organizational
       architecture. Having specified the structural foundation for the architecture,
       one now needs to look at strategies which will be used to concretely realize the various quality goals
       of the organization across its various business processes.  
       The organization's architecture is ultimately assembled from a particular combination
       of architectural patterns and strategies.
     </ns4043:para>
   </ns4032:section>

  
</ns3995:section>