<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?>
<!--DOCTYPE section PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN"
  "http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.2/docbookx.dtd"--><ns2822:section xmlns:ns2822="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xml:id="resources.information.technologies.java.j2ee.ejb.security.programmatic.programmatic">

    <ns2823:title xmlns:ns2823="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Programmatic Authorization</ns2823:title>
    <ns2824:para xmlns:ns2824="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      Declarative security is generally nice because it clearly separates the
      responsibilities of developing the bean with the business logic and restricting access to
      the bean services for security reasons. The security settings can be modified without
      digging into the code.
    </ns2824:para>
    <ns2825:para xmlns:ns2825="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      At times the straight-forward security architecture of setting permissions to methods
      is not sophisticated enough to handle the business requirements.
    </ns2825:para>
    <ns2826:para xmlns:ns2826="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      For example, the requirements could be that bank managers may withdraw any amount from
      bank accounts while tellers may only withdraw up to some limit (say R50 000.00). In this
      case the simple declarative security model is not good enough and authorization must be
      handled programmatically.
    </ns2826:para>
    
    <ns2827:section xmlns:ns2827="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns2828:title xmlns:ns2828="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Querying Security Principals and Roles</ns2828:title>
      <ns2829:para xmlns:ns2829="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        EJB defines the context of the enterprise bean. This includes information about the
        identity of the client and of the security role the client has been placed in. This is
        compatible with the Java 2 security model.
      </ns2829:para>
      <ns2830:para xmlns:ns2830="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        The security principal is an entity with a name. It could, for example, be a person
        or, a company, a smart-card or a login id.
      </ns2830:para>
      <ns2831:para xmlns:ns2831="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        The EJB context can be queried for the principal as well as whether the client is in
        a particular security role via:
<ns2832:programlisting xmlns:ns2832="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
public interface javax.ejb.EJBContext
{
 ...
 public java.security.Principal getCallerPrincipal();

 public boolean isCallerInRole(String roleName);
 ...
}
</ns2832:programlisting>        
      </ns2831:para>
    </ns2827:section>
    
    <ns2833:section xmlns:ns2833="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns2834:title xmlns:ns2834="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Controlling Access from Your Code</ns2834:title>
      <ns2835:para xmlns:ns2835="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        For example, in the following code snippet the entity bean queries the security role
        of the caller which is available from the session context and, under certain conditions
        which depend on the security role and on other variables, a security exception is thrown:
<ns2836:programlisting xmlns:ns2836="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
public class AccountBean implements EntityBean
{
 ...
 public void withdraw(double amount)
               throws java.lang.SecurityException
 {
   if (context.isCallerInRole("teller") &amp;amp;&amp;amp; (amount &gt; 10000))
     throw new SecurityException
       ("Amount exceeds authorized withdrawal limit.");

   balance -= amount;
 }
 ...
}
</ns2836:programlisting>
      </ns2835:para>
    </ns2833:section>
    
    <ns2837:section xmlns:ns2837="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns2838:title xmlns:ns2838="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Obtaining an Enterprise Bean's EJB Context</ns2838:title>
      <ns2839:para xmlns:ns2839="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Each service request occurs within some EJB context. In the case of session beans it
        is a<ns2840:literal xmlns:ns2840="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">SessionContext</ns2840:literal> and in the case of entity beans it
        is an <ns2841:literal xmlns:ns2841="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">EntityContext</ns2841:literal>. Both,  
        <ns2842:literal xmlns:ns2842="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">SessionContext</ns2842:literal> and 
        <ns2843:literal xmlns:ns2843="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">EntityContext</ns2843:literal> are specializations of <ns2844:literal xmlns:ns2844="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">EJBContext</ns2844:literal>.
      </ns2839:para>
      <ns2845:para xmlns:ns2845="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        The bean context can be made available to the enterprise bean. All you have to do is
        to supply a<ns2846:literal xmlns:ns2846="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">setSessionContext</ns2846:literal> method for session beans
        method and a <ns2847:literal xmlns:ns2847="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">setEntityContext</ns2847:literal> for entity beans. In
        either case you will simply keep a reference to the bean context within the bean. For
        example which enables your bean to keep a reference to the bean context:
      </ns2845:para>

<ns2848:programlisting xmlns:ns2848="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
public class AccountBean implements EntityBean
{
 ...
 public void setEntityContext(javax.ejb.EntityContext context)
               throws java.lang.SecurityException
 {
   this.context = context;
 }
 ...
 private javax.ejb.EntityContext context;
}
</ns2848:programlisting>
  <ns2849:para xmlns:ns2849="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        Your <ns2850:literal xmlns:ns2850="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">setEntityContext</ns2850:literal> method will be called by the
        bean container as a new bean instance is created and when the bean context changes.
  </ns2849:para>
    </ns2837:section>
    
    <ns2851:section xmlns:ns2851="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
      <ns2852:title xmlns:ns2852="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Bean Security Role References and Actual Security Roles</ns2852:title>
      <ns2853:para xmlns:ns2853="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        The EJB 1.1 standard differentiates between enterprise bean security role references
        used in the bean implementation and the actual security roles of the various applications
        which make use of the enterprise bean, <ns2854:abbrev xmlns:ns2854="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns2854:abbrev>. the security roles which exist at run-time.
      </ns2853:para>
      <ns2855:para xmlns:ns2855="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        As bean developer you specify security roles which are referenced by your bean. These
        security role references are your local security roles which are used within the
        enterprise bean implementation itself.
      </ns2855:para>
      <ns2856:para xmlns:ns2856="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        The actual security roles which exist at run-time will be mapped onto the bean's
        security roles.
      </ns2856:para>
      
      <ns2857:section xmlns:ns2857="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns2858:title xmlns:ns2858="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Specifying the Security Roles Used by Your Enterprise Bean</ns2858:title>
        <ns2859:para xmlns:ns2859="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          The bean's security roles are specified in the enterprise bean's deployment
          descriptor. This notifies people who use your enterprise bean (e.g. deployers and
          application assemblers) that your enterprise bean requires a specific set of security roles.
        </ns2859:para>
        <ns2860:para xmlns:ns2860="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          In our account example the security roles used are  
          <ns2861:literal xmlns:ns2861="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">manager</ns2861:literal> and <ns2862:literal xmlns:ns2862="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">teller</ns2862:literal>:
<ns2863:programlisting xmlns:ns2863="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
&lt;ejb-jar&gt;
 &lt;enterprise-bean&gt;
   &lt;entity&gt;
     &lt;ejb-name&gt;Account&lt;/ejb-name&gt;
     &lt;ejb-class&gt;AccountBean&lt;/ejb-class&gt;
     ...
     &lt;security-role-ref&gt;
       &lt;description&gt;Managers have full control over accounts and may
                    withdraw any amount from accounts.
       &lt;role-name&gt;manager&lt;/role-name&gt;
     &lt;/security-role-ref&gt;
     &lt;security-role-ref&gt;
       &lt;description&gt;Tellers may only withdraw up to some daily limit
                    from an account.&lt;/descriptor&gt;
       &lt;role-name&gt;teller&lt;/role-name&gt;
     &lt;/security-role-ref&gt;
   &lt;/entity&gt;
 &lt;/enterprise-bean&gt;
&lt;/ejb-jar&gt;
</ns2863:programlisting>
        </ns2860:para>
      </ns2857:section>
      
      <ns2864:section xmlns:ns2864="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
        <ns2865:title xmlns:ns2865="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">Mapping Security Role References onto Actual Security Roles</ns2865:title>
        <ns2866:para xmlns:ns2866="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          The above is all the bean developer usually does. The deployer, on the other hand,
          will add elements to your deployment descriptor which 
          <ns2867:itemizedlist xmlns:ns2867="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
            <ns2868:listitem xmlns:ns2868="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              <ns2869:para xmlns:ns2869="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">will define the actual security roles which will be present at run-time, and </ns2869:para>
            </ns2868:listitem>
            <ns2870:listitem xmlns:ns2870="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
              <ns2871:para xmlns:ns2871="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">will map your bean's security role references onto the actual security roles.</ns2871:para>
            </ns2870:listitem>
          </ns2867:itemizedlist>
        </ns2866:para>  
        <ns2872:para xmlns:ns2872="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          The former is done as in the case of declarative authentication, <ns2873:abbrev xmlns:ns2873="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">i.e.</ns2873:abbrev>. the security
          role definitions will be added to the assembly descriptor section of the deployment descriptor.
        </ns2872:para>
        <ns2874:para xmlns:ns2874="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
          The mapping of the bean's security role references onto the actual security roles
          is done by adding role links to the security role reference declarations. After the
          deployer has added these features, the deployment descriptor will look something like
          the following:
<ns2875:programlisting xmlns:ns2875="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
&lt;ejb-jar&gt;
 &lt;enterprise-bean&gt;
   &lt;entity&gt;
     &lt;ejb-name&gt;Account&lt;/ejb-name&gt;
     &lt;ejb-class&gt;AccountBean&lt;/ejb-class&gt;
     ...

     &lt;security-role-ref&gt;
       &lt;description&gt;Managers have full control over accounts and may
                    withdraw any amount from accounts.
       &lt;role-name&gt;manager&lt;/role-name&gt;
       &lt;role-link&gt;administrator&lt;/role-link&gt;
     &lt;/security-role-ref&gt;

     &lt;security-role-ref&gt;
       &lt;description&gt;Tellers may only withdraw up to some daily limit
                    from an account.&lt;/descriptor&gt;
       &lt;role-name&gt;teller&lt;/role-name&gt;
       &lt;role-link&gt;operator&lt;/role-link&gt;
     &lt;/security-role-ref&gt;

   &lt;/entity&gt;
 &lt;/enterprise-bean&gt;

 &lt;assembly-descriptor&gt;

   &lt;security-role&gt;
     &lt;description&gt;Administrators have fill access to the account.&lt;/description&gt;
     &lt;role-name&gt;administrator&lt;/role-name&gt;
   &lt;/security-role&gt;

   &lt;security-role&gt;
     &lt;description&gt;operators are the bank tellers which have only
                  limited account access.&lt;/description&gt;
     &lt;role-name&gt;operator&lt;/role-name&gt;
   &lt;/security-role&gt;

 &lt;/assembly-descriptor&gt;

&lt;/ejb-jar&gt;
</ns2875:programlisting>
        </ns2874:para>
      </ns2864:section>
    </ns2851:section>
</ns2822:section>