<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?oxygen RNGSchema="http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/5.0/rng/docbookxi.rng" type="xml"?><section xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         version="5.0"
         xml:id="resources.information.concepts.architecture.referenceArchitectures.j2ee.clientContainers.clientContainers">
  <title>Client containers</title>
  <para>
    The Java EE specification introduces the concept of a client container which provides the
    required environment for a Java EE client (i.e. a Java program running on a client machine
    which uses the services puliches by EJBs). 
  </para>
  <para>
    Before the advent of client containers, a Java-based client had to itself include a whole range of
    Java libraries, as well as configuration, to be able to connect to a particular application
    server. A client to a JBoss-based service could not easily talk to that same service deployed
    to Glassfish wthout a major configuration change.
  </para>
  <para>
    The Client container facilitaes the executation of a Java application within an environment which is already
    fuly and automatically set up to connect to it's <quote>mothership</quote> Java EE container, making it
    easy to write small, portable EJB clients in Java.
  </para>
  <para>
    In particular it supports
    <itemizedlist>
         <listitem>
            <para>
        The client environment provides the environment enabling the Java EE client to communicate
        with the Java EE server components. This may include support for different communication
        protocols like RMI/SSL. 
      </para>
         </listitem>
         <listitem>
            <para>
        The client container provides the client the infrastructure and configuration for looking up
        server side components.
      </para>
         </listitem>
         <listitem>
            <para>
        The client container makes the Java EE annotations available to the client.
      </para>
         </listitem>
         <listitem>
            <para>
         Application servers may, but are not required to, provide a client container which is
        distributable via Java WebStart.
      </para>
         </listitem>
      </itemizedlist>
    
  </para>
</section>